 Muhammad Kabir, Kano Barrister Muhuyi Magaji Rimin Gado, the Executive Chairman, Kano State Public Complaints and Anti-Corruption Commission (PCACC), on Tuesday rejected posting of a new accountant to the Commission by the state government.
The embattled anti corruption czar, in a memo seen by this newspaper, with reference number PCAC/GEN/1/VOL.1/XX and addressed the state’s Accountant General, insisted that the government lacks the power to decide for his agency.
Barrister Muhuyi Magaji said in the memo: “The Commission is governed (sic) by the provision of Kano State Public Complaints and Anti-Corruption Law 2008 (as amended),” adding that: “Appointments into any office of the Commission other than its membership is within the exclusive competence of the Commission.”
An impeccable source at the Ministry of Finance said: “PCACC’s current accountant is a level 7 officer, hence the need for urgent replacement to pave way for full investigation into the agency’s financial transactions.”
The anti-corruption czar has recently hit the spotlight following a report of a private inquest launched by the government on the alleged flamboyant life style of the public officer.
A source close to the development alleged that the report of the private investigation submitted to the governor painted a picture of a public officer larger than life image whose total emoluments can not deligently support his alleged “outlandish ostentation”.
It was not immediately clear how the state government was going to respond to the technicalities raised by Rimi Gado’s letter, as source said: “The letter was submitted to the Accountant General late on Tuesday
evening.”  The Kano State Governor Abdullahi Ganduje has lamented the spate at which corruption is spreading in Nigeria, saying it is killing the country and if not restricted, will hinder development. Governor Ganduje, who was represented by the Secretary to the State Government, Alhaji Usman Alhaji, stated this yesterday in Kano… April 30, 2021 In "News" Governor Umar Ganduje of Kano State has urged the State Public and Anticorruption Commission not to compromise fighting the menace even if it involves his cabinet members.   “You should be rest assured that whoever you dock with corrupt cases is his personal business, because I will never interfere,” Ganduje… August 16, 2020 In "News" The Chairman of Kano State Public Complaints and Anti-corruption Commission (PCAC), Bar. Muhuyi Magaji Rimin Gado has advocated for an immediate salary increment for staff of the Commission, to avoid possible temptation that might lead to compromised. He appealed to the Kano State Governor, Dr. Abdullahi Umar Ganduje to increase… November 19, 2020 In "Metro & Crime"