Former Vice President, Atiku Abubakar, has said thst the social media platform known as Koo on his name is fake. Atiku in a statement by his media adviser, Paul Ibe explained that information and details on the fake Koo account was lifted from other social media platforms where he holds verified handles.  He stated that he was compelled to make the clarification because this may cause unsuspecting members of the public to be misled into wrongly mistaking postings on the fake account as being authoritatively that of his.  “For the avoidance of doubt, Atiku Abubakar is not on the Koo social media platform and this fake handle should be discountenanced by the public.  “All Atiku Abubakar’s social media handles are verified and have been running for a couple of years.  “We therefore urge the public not to be misled by the antics of criminal elements who impersonate by creating fake social media handles, especially as it relates to Atiku Abubakar. “We also call on law enforcement agencies to thoroughly investigate this criminal activity and bring the culprit(s) to book,”  Atiku demanded. It would be recalled that the Federal Government suspended operations of micro-media platform, Twitter in the country and approved the operation of Koo platform   j Former Vice President, Alhaji Atiku Abubakar has said the social media platform known as 'Koo' on his name is fake.   Atiku, in a statement by his Media Adviser, Paul Ibe, explained that information and details on the fake Koo account was lifted from other social media platforms where… June 12, 2021 In "News" The Nigeria Police Force’s Special Anti- Robbery Squad (SARS) came under attack over the weekend on social media following a viral video where some operatives allegedly shot dead a young man in front of a hotel in the Ughelli area of Delta State.   The video, which went viral on… October 5, 2020 In "News" Former Vice President, Atiku Abubakar is proposing an independent judicial inquiry into the activities of the Special Anti-Robbery Squad (SARS) to ensure justice for victims of extrajudicial killings and punishment for officers involved in such dastardly acts. Atiku, in a statement by his media office, also demanded scrutiny and stock… October 11, 2020 In "News"