Rt. Revd James Olusola Odedeji, the Diocesan Bishop of Lagos West (Anglican Communion), speaks on the state of the nation, insecurity and the fight against corruption, among other issues. Wale Elegbede reports State of the nation Our nation is going through many challenges. Nigeria is polarised presently by those who have lost hope and want the country to break up and those who are optimistic that with the right leadership, it can still realise its full potential. National integration is, therefore, a tall order. Public confidence in those who are in power is waning; insecurity is growing in leaps and bounds. The incursion of armed herders, criminals and bandits into certain parts of the country has presented a severe security challenge such that citizens are not able to live their normal lives including pursuing various productive activities leading to a threat to food supply and general abject poverty. We have lost count of the numbers of those presently in the kidnappers’ dens/cells; and the numbers of those who have lost their lives and the number of those in the Internally Displaced Persons camps. The sheer amount of ungoverned spaces under the control of Boko Haram in Nigeria is a problem. Corruption is still a huge challenge working against every good thing in Nigeria. The political class is self-centered and greedy. Our politicians use every opportunity to exploit and extort the citizenry. The much-expected unity in diversity then remains a mirage. How can Nigeria triumph over these self-inflicted problems? Security challenges The protection of lives of property of citizens is the primary responsibility of any responsible government. Recently, insecurity has escalated, and things have deteriorated. In the past decade, there has been a spate of violent attacks linked to Boko Haram in the Northern part of the country, where lives have been lost and properties worth billions of naira, destroyed. Presently, bandits are now on the rampage terrorizing, kidnapping, robbing, raping, maiming, and killing people on the highways. In different parts of the country, mass abduction and kidnappings of schoolboys and girls are their signature atrocities. The substantial profits earned from kidnapping allow the purchase of more weapons and the intimidation or the pay-off of yet more local officials and members of the security forces. People now live in palpable fear everywhere. Travelling across Nigeria, particularly on the roads is now scary and is becoming quite dangerous due to the activities of kidnappers, bandits, terrorists, criminals and hoodlums. It is worrisome that seven years after the abduction of 276 girls of Government Girls Secondary School, Chibok, Borno State, things have taken a more dangerous dimension as attacks on schools have now become consistent. Reports say that about 800 students, including those attending higher institutions, have been abducted in coordinated attacks on schools in mostly Northern states in the last six months. While some of the students were lucky to be released from the kidnappers’ dens, others were brutally murdered. Others are still in captivity, while parents scramble to pay ransoms. The incessant attacks on schools are only a system of a bigger problem. Insecurity across the country has worsened. States have been forced to shut schools, particularly the boarding schools in vulnerable areas due to insecurity, despite the closure of schools for over six months nationwide in 2020 due to the COVID-19 pandemic. On May 10, the Presidency disclosed that there was an attempt by armed robbers to burgle the residence of the Chief of Staff to the President, Ibra-him Gambari. This further heightened the fears of the people that indeed no one is any longer safe in the country. The South-East has also witnessed consistent attacks on security formations in some of its states in the recent times usually linked to ‘unknown gunmen.’ The South-South has also not been spared. Police, soldiers, and other government institutions have been witnessing consistent attacks in which law enforcement officers are killed with reckless abandon. The security personnel, including the police and soldiers, have recorded a lot of casualties in the hands of terrorists and ‘unknown gunmen.’ The South- West has also not been spared. Lagos and its suburbs are already surrounded by criminals both natives and foreigners. The United States Embassy issued an advisory warning Americans to be careful of traffic robbers in Lagos. Even if Lagos is relatively safe, we are sitting on time bomb! All over, the threat level is rife. It will be dangerous to allow Nigeria to slide into a war it can ill afford, whereas, this is already a war situation, even if not yet a full-blown war. The nation is bleeding; blood is flowing here and there. People are living in palpable fear. Several factors are to blame; most of them are self-inflicted. The President must clamp down on this anomaly decisively. Nigeria is now experiencing failed institutions, weakened national cohesion and hegemonic stance as fallouts of insecurity. State failure is playing out extensively. Notable voices have been calling on the President to seek help, review the impotent security system or return Nigeria to true federalism. The human and economic costs of this anarchy and killings are simply unsustainable. Crime has become an easy alternative for the nation’s teeming youths. The government must tackle unemployment and poverty, otherwise, the crime rate will continue to soar. State of the economy Nigeria is practicing an economically centralized, unworkable, and politically unsustainable federal structure. This has so far delivered only economic misery, poverty, and joblessness. Nigeria currently has a policy which allows the Federal Government to take 52.68 per cent of revenues and shares the rest among the 36 states and 774 local government areas. This has made the states and local government areas noncompetitive and unproductive, leading to a low economic complexity. The states are neither productive nor have the impetus to drive economic activities. This is due to the absurd dependence on the monthly federal allocation. This fiscal policy is unhealthy for Nigeria as it does not allow its constituent entities to grow. It simply makes them perpetually dependent. There are abundant agricultural and mineral resources waiting to be exploited. Nigeria is Africa’s largest producer of oil and the sixth largest oil producing country in the world. Despite its huge resource endowment, majority of its citizens wallow in abject poverty while unemployment is growing. Prices of goods and services are rising every day. The country’s economic fortune has been dwindling due to a fall in the global price of crude oil and its overdependence on oil and the failure to develop other resources. Poverty rate remains high in Nigeria. The problem is further compounded by the high cost of governance which is caused by the running of bogus Ministries, Departments and Agencies (MDAs) that perform overlapping functions, wasteful spending by government officials and the jumbo pay for some elected officials. Fight against corruption Corruption is a serious crime. Corruption stifles development and economic growth. Public officials continue their looting spree while public funds are embezzled by greedy and insatiable politicians and public servants. The wheel of justice grinds too slowly in cases involving corrupt and influential politicians. Nigeria dropped to 149 on Transparency International’s 2020 Corruption Perception Index; the worst ranking received in recent times. The Lagos State governor, Babajide Sanwo-Olu, recently signed the Public Complaints and Anti-Corruption Commission Bill 2021 into law. The law seeks to promote accountability and transparency in the governance process. The law nudges the state government to establish an anti-corruption agency to investigate and prosecute officials of the state and contractors indicted for economic crimes and financial misappropriation. Similar agencies have been set up in Oyo and Kano States. It is a worthy model that other states must urgently emulate. However, the worry here is about its implementation. Nigeria is not a country without laws; there are many of such laws. Implementation and sincerity on the part of the state actors to apply such laws no matter whose ox is gored has always been called to question. This is a key reason why corruption has continued to thrive. The strong and powerful are shielded from the anti-graft agencies. Infrastructural development We must commend the government of the day for opening new frontiers in rail and road transportation. We make bold to say that all the six geopolitical zones of the country have enjoyed some levels of road and rail construction, and so many of such roads and even rails lines are still ongoing. As at the last count, the second Niger Bridge has gotten to 66 per cent construction level, while the standard rail gauge from Lagos to Ibadan has been completed. However, we must join our voices with others to say that the rate at which the government has borrowed, and still borrowing in the name of infrastructural development, is quite worrisome and this needs to be urgently put in check. Infrastructural development must be priorities in line with the available resources and minimal borrowing. There is the need not to trade the future of our nation all in the name of development. What is the essence, for instance, of completing our standard rail gauge, having borrowed heavily to finance it, and the same taken over by our creditor nations, all to service the debts owed them. We must be careful not to allow another sovereign state within our sovereignty. There is a saying that modern slaves are not in chains, they are in debts. 2023 general election As usual, the 2023 general election has started gathering momentum. But the question is: Will it ever hold? Why was the question asked? More than ever before, this country has been greatly dismembered. There are agitations in virtually all the three zones in the South, and even in the Middle Belt. The complaints are similar; to re-discuss the Nigerian nation. The structure of the Nigerian state, as at today, is defective, and only a conference of all stakeholders to discuss how unity could be achieved will save the country from imminent collapse. Ironically, the government of the day and the major drivers of governance are not interested in any form of conference. The plan of government today is to apply, if possible, maximum force to sustain its policies on the governed. In the South-West and South-East zones, agitation for self-determination is so tense to the extent that in the absence of a dialogue with the various zones to quell agitations, anarchy is knocking right at our door, with possible calamitous consequences. Long before now, the names ‘Biafra’ and ‘MASSOB’ were rife in the South- East, today not only that other groups have emerged, names such as ‘Oduduwa Nation,’ ‘Middle Belt Nation,’ Indigenous People of Biafra and even ‘New Biafra’ are noticeable. And with all the threats from all our security agencies, these groups are unperturbed. They are brazing up for war and if dialogue is not initiated on time, what happened in Somalia might be child’s play. In our opinion, if this government is not interested in the outcome of 2014 National Conference report, which brought different opinions together as to how Nigeria can remain one and indivisible, another one can be initiated. But without a national discourse, the future of the country to remain one may be a mirage. Already, people in various zones are at daggers drawn with their political leaders on whether there would be election come 2023. From the look of things, the last may not have been heard on what may likely befall this country on or before the coming election date. Governance in Lagos State There is no doubt that our state became an epicentre of the country, when COVID-19 broke out in Nigeria in March 2020. The time that could have been used to address developmental issues was diverted to attending to those infected by the pandemic and that slowed down development of the state considerably. The economy of the state was badly hit with its resultant effect on both human and material resources. For about five months, people were restricted to their homes. It was really a bad experience to behold in the history of not only our nation, but other nations of the world. As if that was not enough, the #EndSARS protest came in October, with its attendant destruction of lives and property and the huge destruction of government property, running into billions of Naira. It was really a tempestuous year that shook governance in the state to its foundation. However, Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu rose to the challenge and between the time the storm was over and now, a lot of projects had been commissioned by this visionary government, with many more still going. We wish to particularly commend the governor and his team for their plan to tackle transportation problem in Lagos with the introduction of both Blue and Red rail lines, to cater for intra-transportation within Lagos, thereby reducing the man-hour being wasted on our roads, daily. It can only take a visionary leader to govern Lagos and make such an impact that will outlive our generation. Within the last two years, the water transportation has also received a boost with new Jetties built, all to encourage more people to always consider alternative means of transportation, as against encouraging endless traffic snarl on our roads. The way out for Nigeria In our humble opinion the following steps need to be taken by the authorities in the land to put Nigeria back on the path of progress and growth. The federal and state governments as well as the security agencies must sustain campaigns against cattle rustling and banditry, improve early-warning systems; maintain operational readiness of rural-based police and other security units, encourage communication and collaboration with local authorities and tighten control of production, circulation and possession of illicit firearms and ammunition, including strengthening cross-border cooperation with neighbouring countries’ security forces. Sponsors of terrorist groups must be identified, arrested and prosecuted accordingly if the fight against insurgency will be result-oriented. There is need for professional restructuring, which is a key policy that will purge the military and the police of its ills and reposition it for its improved professional task. The President must equally show the willpower to steer Nigeria out of violence. The President should declare a state of emergency on security, initiate security reforms and take necessary measures towards running an inclusive government. The police formations must be decentralized. The call for the amendment of the constitution to allow for the creation of state police has been consistent. States should be allowed to control their resources and their internal security more effectively. We must adopt state policing as it is the best option for Nigeria. The military must be fully armed and well-motivated. The state governors must be proactive; their security votes must be used to serve and protect the people. They must be ready to maintain law and order without fear or favour. Perpetrators of the carnage all over the country must be brought to book and prosecuted. Security must be heightened around our schools. Schools should be secured with perimeter fencing and alarm systems. This will offer the first line of defense against intruders. The government must look for more creative ways to safeguard places of learning. Improved connections should also be encouraged and driven between the schools and their host communities. We recommend the implementation of fiscal federalism in which the resources of the states should belong to them and the constituent entities only pay federal taxes or royalties for the resources. This was the practice in the in the First Republic; the regions controlled their resources, paid taxes, and agreed percentages to the entre. This worked well as the regions developed very well. All the 36 states have resources that can be developed for economic growth. A unitary system masquerading as a federation like Nigeria only produces a club of diverse, but insensitive political elites, whose happiness and comfort largely depend on their opportunistic and exclusive access to state resources. They may not bother about the general populace. The time to end the shallow and parochial interests standing selfishly against restructuring is now. A proper federal set-up will save our country from unemployment, insecurity, economic downturn, ethnic tensions and place it firmly on the path of sustainable national development. The government should therefore take steps to improve the efficiency of the states and their ability to provide public goods. Economic diversification holds the key to the emergence of a robust economy. The Federal Government must, as a matter of urgency, work with the Lagos State government to find a lasting solution to the gridlock on the Oshodi-Apapa expressway, being the only outlet from Apapa Port. The Federal Government should immediately move to establish more ports in other states. This will further create more jobs for the teeming unemployed youths in the country and promote socio-economic activities in the country. The fighting against corruption demands sincerity of purpose on the part of the government as well as government/society approach. The states should work closely with the federal agencies as well as the private sector and civil society organizations. The leadership must be seen to be above board and spur civil servants to excellence, and governance should be opened to public scrutiny. The Federal Government must take deliberate steps to strengthen and reposition the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) and the Independent Corrupt Practices and other related offences Commission (ICPC) to prosecute all cases of corruption.  The Muslim Students’ Society of Nigeria (MSSN) has urged the federal government and the security agencies to fish out the perpetrators of Igangan killings, saying Nigerians are tired of excuses. The society in a statement jointly signed by the B-Zone Amir/Zonal Coordinator, Qaasim Babatunde Odedeji, Secretary, Abdul-Jalil Abdur- Razaq and… June 10, 2021 In "News" Lateef Dada, Osogbo The Muslim Students' Society of Nigeria (MSSN) has urged the Federal Government and security agencies to fish out the perpetrators of the Igangan killing, saying Nigerians are tired of excuses. The society in a statement jointly signed by the B-Zone Amir/Zonal Coordinator, Qaasim Babatunde Odedeji, Secretary, Abdul-Jalil Abdur-Razaq… June 9, 2021 In "Metro & Crime" At last, the Federal Government last week promised Nigerians that it would do everything it could to end insurgency, banditry and violent criminal activities in the country this year.   The assurance came from President Muhammadu Buhari, during a Juma’at Prayer for this year’s Armed Forces Remembrance Day celebration at… January 11, 2021 In "Editorial"