 President Muhammadu Buhari has approved the appointment of Mr. Umar Hassan Waziri as the Chief Financial Officer (CFO) of the Federal Government’s Power Company Limited.
Waziri replaced Mr. Shuaibu Ahmed, who was responsible for managing the financial and administrative activities of the FGN PowerCo, a statement issued on Friday by Special Assistant (Media) to the Minister of Finance, Budget and National Planning Mallam Tanko Abdullahi said.
Waziri is  a fellow of the Institute of Chartered Accountants of Nigeria (ICAN) with over 20 years  experience in accounting, auditing, and financing in the energy and public sectors.
His  replacement, follows the recent approval by Buhari of the appointment of Ahmed as the new Executive Secretary of the Financial Reporting Council (FRC) for an initial four-year term, starting April this year.
Subsequently, Ahmed has so far resumed his new position as the Executive Secretary of FRC, having resigned from his former position as CFO of the FGN PowerCo.
Ahmed was among the five members of the executive management team of the Special Purpose Vehicle (SPV) for the implementation of the Presidential Power Initiative (PPI).  President Muhammadu Buhari has approved the appointment of Dr. Oyetunde Oyetunde as Executive Director for Nigeria at African Development Bank (AfDB) in Abidjan, Cote D’Ivoire. Prior to his appointment, Oyetunde was Senior Special Assistant to Mr. President on Finance and Fiscal Policy as well as legal matters in the Office… March 18, 2021 In "News" The ambush on his convoy, the ease with which he was whisked away by security operatives and the speed at which he was ferried to Aso Rock and "arraigned" before a Presidential Investigation Panel, were all indications that the curtain was about to fall on a long drawn drama piece.… July 9, 2020 In "News" Jaiz Bank Plc has appointed Dr. Sirajo Salisu as executive director, Mrs Aisha Waziri Umar and Dr. Abdullateef Bello as independent non-executive directors. In a statement by the bank, the appointments had been approved by the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) and forwarded to the Nige-rian Stock Exchange (NSE). Salisu… October 19, 2020 In "Business"