Whenever he appears at any social setting, the chant of ‘incoming’ ‘incoming’ usually rent the air. Of course, he is aspiring to lead his local government as chairman but he needs a political platform to actualise his ambition. His party of choice is the All Progressives Congress (APC) and he got himself committed to the platform and even opened his doors for the party in his ward to hold meetings. And when the jostle for the forthcoming July 24 local council election commenced in his party, the politician alongside his supporters were enthusiastic that the odds will be in their favour. Not leaving any stone unturned, this businessman turned politician literally emptied his pocket and that of his better half. At a point, it was learnt that he accessed a loan to finance the primary election, print posters and billboards, mobilize party members and leaders. Unfortunately, wishes were not horses. He lost out at the last minute to a preferred aspirant and that made his world crash like a pack of cards. He is currently said to be incommunicado as some of those he is owing are on his trail.  Members of the Edo State chapter of the All Progressives Congress (APC) are expected to elect the candidate to fly the party’s flag in the September 19 governorship election in the state, but FELIX NWANERI and CAJETAN MMUTA report that the exercise would be a mere endorsement of the… June 22, 2020 In "Politics" Soludo: Grappling with APGA's hidden forces The attack on the former Governor of the Central Bank Nigeria (CBN), Prof Charles Soludo, has shown that there are serious rumblings in the All Progressives Grand Alliance (APGA) in Anambra State ahead of the governorship election in November. OKEY MADUFORO reports.   The… April 6, 2021 In "Politics" Twelve aspirants, including Governor Oluwarotimi Akeredolu, will today battle for the governorship ticket of the All Progressives Congress (APC) ahead of the October 10 election in Ondo State. ADEWALE MOMOH X-rays the 12 gladiators and their chances at the shadow poll     The political atmosphere in Ondo State could… July 20, 2020 In "Politics"