In its determination to ensure transparency and accountability in the financial sector, the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) has demanded for the assets declaration forms of the executive management of all banks in the country. Among those affected are Managing Directors (MDs), Deputy Managing Directors (DMDs) and Executive Directors (EDs). Saturday Telegraph gathered from highly placed sources at the commission that the request for the assets declaration forms was contained in a letter to the managing directors of the banks, dated Tuesday, June 1. This is coming few months after the chairman of EFCC, Mr. Abdulrasheed Bawa, had made a similar request for the assets declaration forms filed by bankers with effect from June 1. It was learnt that the antigraft agency derived its power from the Bank Employees, Etc. (Declaration of Assets) Act of 1986. One of the sources, who spoke in confidence with Saturday Telegraph, said: “Among the top bank officials expected to submit their assets declaration forms to the Commission, are: managing directors, deputy managing directors, as well as executive directors of all the banks in the country. “The request is pursuant to the Bank Employees, Etc. (Declaration of Assets) Act, 1986, which mandates bankers to declare assets upon employment and annually thereafter. Findings by this newspaper revealed that those who violate the aforestated law risk jail term of up to 10 years.  Lawyers disagree over EFCC’s directive   Can the EFCC lawfully require bankers to declare assets without recourse to court? Lawyers say no, yes. AKEEM NAFIU reports Some senior lawyers have expressed divergent views on the legality of the recent directive by the Chairman of the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission… March 29, 2021 In "Law" …backs EFCC on asset declaration by banks The Civil Society Legislative Advocacy Centre (CISLAC) Transparency International has said that Nigeria loses between $15 billion and $18 billion annually to illegal financial flows. The group also threw its weight behind the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFFC)'s directive that operators in… March 20, 2021 In "News" ...says cybercrime chasing investors away from Nigeria The Economic and Financial Crimes Commi s s i on (EFCC) has given bankers in the country till June 1st to declare their assets. T his was disclosed by the Chairman of the commission, Abdulrasheed Bawa, in an interaction with newsmen after a… March 17, 2021 In "News"