 Operatives of the Kogi State Police Command have killed two kidnappers who were on the verge of collecting ransom in Abobo area of Okehi Local Government Area of the state.
Onogwu Muhammed, the Chief Press Secretary to the Kogi State Governor, Yahaya Bello, confirmed this in a statement on Tuesday.
According to Muhammed, the two kidnappers were gunned down in the early hours of Tuesday while collecting the ransom representatives of their victims from one of the neighbouring states.
He said the police were able to ambush and kill the kidnappers following intelligence reports from professional hunters in the area.
He said: “Following actionable intelligence report, professional hunters in Okehi Local Government Area of the state ambushed the kidnappers who came out in Abobo area behind Nigerian Iron Ore Mining Company, Itakpe, to collect ransom demanded before the release of their victims.
“Two of the three kidnappers were killed in the process while one escaped into the bush with gunshot wounds with captives freed in the operation.”
According to him, the Divisional Police Officer of Okehi LGA, Ovanja Yakubu and his officers were drafted to join professional hunters to fetch out the third kidnapper dead or alive.
Muhammed also said Governor Bello, who maintained his position on criminal elements, has assured that the state would not accommodate any criminal trying to deprive the people of their peace.
According to him, Bello said he was elected and sworn-in to protect the lives and property of the people and will ensure such covenant is kept for posterity.
The governor commended the professional hunters and the conventional security agencies in the state for their tireless efforts in routing out criminal elements from the state.  ...two informants nabbed   Three kidnappers were on Saturday morning killed in a gun battle with a team of local hunters along the Lokoja-Okene highway   The hunters including, members of the Neighbourhood Watch from Okehi and Adavi local government areas of the state, raided the hoodlums at their hideout… July 26, 2020 In "News" A grieving father, Yaya Ibrahim, has narrated how a trusted member of his community in Jarkama village in Bassa Local Government Area of Kogi State, kidnapped his six-year-old daughter, Farida for ransom, but later killed, burnt and cut off her head. The suspect, Friday Domozu, 23, after allegedly killing Farida,… January 23, 2021 In "News" More than a year after the Rivers State Governor, Nyesom Ezewon Wike placed a N30 million bounty on the notorious kidnapper and gang leader, Honest Diigbara, aka Boboski, the police arrested him in the early hours of Saturday alongside his second in command after a gun duel. During the sting… September 12, 2020 In "News"