Minister of Finance, Budget and National Planning, Hajia Zainab Ahmed, has told the Federal Executive Council (FEC) that improvement in the nation’s economic performance was attributable to the return of international trade, recovery in oil prices and successful vaccination programmes following the gradual recovery from the Coronavirus pandemic. The minister made this disclosure at a briefing after the weekly council meeting chaired by President Muhammadu Buhari at the Presidential Villa yesterday. According to her, the recent results of the 0.51 per cent growth in the Gross Domestic Product (GDP) in first quarter of 2021 released by the National Bureau of Statistics (NBS) showed that the Nigerian economy was on the threshold of growth. She asserted that the 0.51 GDP growth reflected the second consecutive quarter of positive real growth, following two previous consecutive quarters of negative growth in Q3, and Q4 of 2020 saw the country going into recession which it exited in the fourth quarter. This improved condition, she said, was indicated by the fact that 23 out of 46 activities recorded positive growth in the first quarter of 2021, compared to 17 in the previous quarter. The minister added that the gradual recovery of the nation’s economy could also be attributed to return of business to normalcy after the lockdown brought about by the outbreak of Coronavirus pandemic last year. Breaking the growth down, she said: “The agricultural sector posted a strong growth at the rate of 2.28 per cent in the first quarter of 2021, compared to previous quarters. This growth in agriculture signifies the resilience of the agricultural sector. “Also, the industry sector has recorded positive growth, even though a weak one, but the growth is a positive one and this marks the past quarter of growth over the past one year in the industry sector. Services recorded a slight dip, but a small one at 0.39 per cent. “In addition to the economic activities and the reopening of our businesses, growth was also boosted, in fact by increase in crude oil prices as well as increase in production in the first quarter of 2020.” “We have seen this positive growth being contributed by not just the oil sector, but also by economic activities within the metal sector, the cement sector, electricity, telecommunications, food and beverages as well as human health and social services,” she added. Those sectors that recorded negative growth, the minister disclosed, included quarrying and other minerals, oil refinery, road transport, air transport, rail transport, education, as well as hotel, that is accommodation and food services. Commenting on inflation, the minister said: “Throughout 2020 and even three quarters, one year before 2020, airline inflation had maintained an upward trend. For the first time in 19 months, inflation has shown a slight dip. It’s a very slight dip, but it’s a positive point for us, we had indicated that our projection is that inflation will begin to flatten in the month of April 2021 and this is an indication. “So subsequent periods, we are looking at inflation beginning to trend downwards. Food inflation will not come down as fast as the other aspects of inflation, but it is important to also see that the rate of food inflation also showed a slight dip and the rise in food index, which you will see if you check the detailed report, is driven by export foods such as coffee, tea, cocoa, bread, cereals, soft drinks, milk, cheese, not basic food items like rice, maize and millet.” Minister of Environment, Mahmood Abubakar, who also briefed, said the council reviewed the national policy on climate change because if its implications on economy and livelihoods. He said the issue of climate change had affected women most even with the national policy on gender and climate change as approved. “This revised one has also put into consideration the national policy on gender and climate change to include women in almost every aspect of climate projects execution. We all know that recently, a lot of flooding has been happening and it is all as a result of climate change, insecurity is relatable with climate change,” he said.  ...projects N7.89trn revenue, N4.489trn deficit Ministry of Finance, Budget and National Planning has submitted a N13.08 trillion appropriation proposal for the 2021 fiscal year to the Federal Executive Council FEC). The government projected to collect the total sum of N7.89 trillion as revenue while it pegged the total deficit for… October 1, 2020 In "News" …boosts NAFDAC's capacity to detect fake drugs The Federal Government has disclosed that the nation's economy has begun to exhibit some measures of stability with its recent exit from recession, but cautioned that some sectors were still showing signs of fragility. Minister of Finance, Budget and National Planning, Zainab Ahmed,… February 25, 2021 In "News" Nigeria's economy continued its steady but subdued growth in the first quarter 2021 as it grew by 0.51 per cent ( yearon- year) in real term, latest Gross Domestic Growth (GDP) data of National Bureau of Statistics said on Sunday.   The latest figure makes two consecutive quarters of growth… May 24, 2021 In "News"