The First Lady, Hajia Aisha Buhari, has called on the federal government to ensure timely payment of the benefits of retired and deceased soldiers to their respective families in order to further motivate the security forces.  According to a issued by her spokesman, Aliyu Abdullaihi, the First Lady made the call yesterday while receiving wives of service chiefs during a courtesy visit at the State House. Mrs. Buhari also used the opportunity to call on appropriate authorities to conclude the employment of more security officers to address the intractable security problems facing the nation.  The First Lady, who charged the wives of service chiefs to support their husbands in achieving the mandate given to them by the President and the nation to secure Nigeria and its citizens, also highlighted the role women play in nation building as spouses of public officers.  She charged them to optimise their contributions in that regard and enjoined them to uphold the spirit of camaraderie common among the families of security forces that manifests during times of joy and sorrow  The First Lady, Hajia Aisha Buhari, has called on the Federal Government to ensure timely payment of the benefits of retired and deceased soldiers to their respective families in order to further motivate the security forces. According to a release by her spokesman, Aliyu Abdullaihi, the First Lady made the… June 14, 2021 In "News" As the nation continues to mourn the tragic NAF plane crash which claimed the lives of Chief of Army Staff, Lt. General Ibrahim Attahiru and 10 other military officers, wife of the Vice President, Mrs. Dolapo Osinbajo has been visiting the bereaved families and widows of the late officers to… June 4, 2021 In "Politics" Nigeria’s First Lady, Mrs Aisha Buhari has charged women groups in the country to work hard towards the emancipation of the female folk, young and old, so that they can contribute their quota to nation building.   She stated this in Abuja at the weekend at a well-attended conference organised… December 20, 2020 In "News"