The Chairman of the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) Abdulrasheed Bawa, has said that the agency would look in the direction of car, jewellery dealers and real estate developers in search of money launderers. This came as Bawa also disclosed that the Commission was working to strengthen its Special Control Unit against Money Laundering (SCUML) with a view to checkmating the activities of non-designated financial institutions. The EFCC boss, who clarified that the female minister who allegedly purchased a house through a bank chief for $37 million served under previous administration of President Goodluck Jonathan, also vowed to continue the prosecution of all politically exposed cases, including former governors and highly placed government officials in the country. Speaking to State House correspondents during the ministerial briefing organised by the Presidential Communication Team at the Presidential Billa, on his achievements, the anti- graft agency boss said: “SCUML that is being man aged by the EFCC as well as the Ministry of Trade is expected to do similar thing, but this time on the non-designated financial institutions. We are talking about the car dealers, the jewelry dealers and real estate etc.” He disclosed that the agency was working with the National Assembly to strengthen the legal framework of the SCUML against money laundering. Asked to name the minister who allegedly laundered $37 million through real estate during a recent television interview programme, Bawa disclosed the person to be the former Minister of Petroleum, Diezani Madueke. He added that Madueke would be charged to court whenever she made herself available in the country. The EFCC boss equally disclosed that the agency’s newly created Intelligence Unit has unearthed the movement of N6 billion from an unnamed state government’s coffers, saying that this finding was made possible by of the determination of the commission to restructure for more efficiency. He listed recent recoveries made by the Commission to include N6 billion, over $161 million, over £13,000, €1,730, 200 Canadian dollars, CFA 373,000, ¥8,430. Other items recovered were 30 real estates, one carpet, 13 electronics, one farm land, one factory, two motorcycles, one filling station and about 32 automobiles. On his determination to continue the prosecution of politically exposed cases, he said: “We have prosecuted a number of people within this period, secured 185 convictions and you are aware that for two months, the courts have been on strike, we have filed 367 cases and as I said within this week, we are going to file 800 cases in court on public corruption as well as cybercrime.  The Chairman of the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) Abdulrasheed Bawa, has said that the agency would look in the direction of car, jewelry dealers and real estate developers in search of money launderers. This came as Bawa also disclosed that the Commission was working to strengthen its Special… June 17, 2021 In "News" Emmanuel Onani Abuja The Economic and Financial Crimes C o m m i s s i o n (EFCC), is investigating a serving minister over her alleged involvement in the purchase of a property estimated to cost a staggering $37. 5 million. The house was allegedly sold to the minister… June 16, 2021 In "News" ...says $20 million cash evacuated from minister's house The Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC), is investigating a serving minister over her alleged involvement in the purchase of a property estimated to cost a whopping $37. 5 million. The house was allegedly sold to the minister by a Managing Director… June 15, 2021 In "News"