Muritala Ayinla  The Governor of Lagos State and Visitor to the Lagos State University (LASU), Mr. Babajide Sanwo-Olu, has appointed a former Accountant General and Permanent Secretary, Lagos State Ministry of Finance, Sir David Sunmoni and 12 others as members of the new Governing Council for the Lagos State University (LASU). Sunmoni, according to the statement, istoserveastheChairmanof the13-membercouncil.  Their appointment, which was contained in a statement personally signed yesterday by the Special Adviser to Governor Sanwo Olu on Education, Mr. Tokunbo Wahab, was based on the consideration of the report of the Special Visitation Panel on the appointment of the nineth Vice-Chancellor, which recommended the  dissolution of the previous Governing Council and by the powers conferred on the governor by the Lagos State University Law, Cap L69 volume 7, Laws of Lagos State, 2015 (as amended)  According to the statement, other members of the council are: Prof. Amuwo Shaffudeen, Mr Anuoluwa ESO, Mr Tolani Sule, Dr Ifeanyi Chukwuma Odii, Mr Karl Toriola, Mr Adekunle Soname and Mrs Foluke Abdul-Rasaq.  Others are Mrs Moronke Williams, Mr. Adebayo Akinsanya, Mrs Adenike Yomi Fasheun, Mrs Mojisola Tolagbe Taiwo and Dr. Hakeem Adetugbobo.  The statement added that the date for the formal inauguration of the new Governing Council would be announced later.   Muritala Ayinla The Governor of Lagos State and  Visitor to the Lagos State University (LASU), Mr. Babajide Olusola Sanwo-Olu, has appointed a former Accountant General and Permanent Secretary, Lagos State Ministry of Finance, Sir David Sunmoni and 12 others as members of the new Governing Council for the Lagos… June 27, 2021 In "Metro & Crime" ...governor adopts Visitation Panel’s report, orders fresh process for VC’s appointment Murtala Ayinla The Governor of Lagos State and the Visitor to the Lagos State University (LASU), Mr. Babajide Olusola Sanwo-Olu, has disolved council of the university. A statement by the state's Commissioner for Information and Strategy, Mr Gbenga Omotoso,… May 21, 2021 In "Metro & Crime" The Lagos State Governor and Visitor to the Lagos State University (LASU), Babajide Sanwo-Olu, yesterday dissolved the Governing Council, led by the Pro-Chancellor/Chairman of Council, Prof. Adebayo Ninalowo. This was as the governor adopted the Visitation Panel’s Report, and ordered a fresh process for the appointment of Vice-Chancellor for the… May 22, 2021 In "News"