The Federal Government has presented letters of credence to Tukur Buratai and Abayomi Olonisakin, as non-career ambassadors to the Republic of Benin and Cameroon, respectively. A letter of credence is a diplomatic letter appointing an ambassador to another sovereign state, according an online new portal, The- Cable. The letters were handed over to the two ambassadors by Geoffrey Onyeama, Minister of Foreign Affairs, in Abuja, yesterday. In February, President Muhammadu Buhari appointed Buratai, former Chief of Army Staff, and Olonisakin, former Chief of Defence Staff, as non-career ambassadors. Also appointed were Ibok-Ete Ibas, former Chief of Naval Staff, and Sadique Abubakar, former Chief of Air Staff. The appointment was met with varying reactions at the time, but the Senate went ahead to screen the exservice chiefs. Presenting a report on behalf of the Senate Foreign Affairs Committee in February, Muhammed Bulkachuwa had said the nominees met the requirements for the positions. “The nominees rose to a point of their career that has made them eminently qualified. The committee is satisfied with their character and performance,” the lawmaker had said. The ex-service chiefs were subsequently confirmed by the senate.  President Muhammadu Buhari, yesterday, requested the senate to confirm the former Chief of Army Staff, Lt. Gen. Tukur Buratai (Rtd) and other ex-Service Chiefs for appointment as non- career ambassadors to Nigeria foreign missions.   Buhari's request for the confirmation of ambassadorial desginates was contained in a letter he addressed… February 10, 2021 In "News" A few days after their exit from the military, President Muhammadu Buhari has tapped the immediate past Service Chiefs for diplomatic jobs. The President also extended the tenure of the Inspector-General of Police (IGP), Mohammed Adamu, by three months. Adamu’s service in the Force expired on February 1, 2021. Already,… February 5, 2021 In "News" The immediate past Service Chiefs have appeared before the Senate Committee on Foreign Affairs for screening as ambassadors of Nigeria. President Muhammadu Buhari appointed them as ambassadors after they left office in January. The ex-service chiefs are Abayomi Olonisakin, former chief of Fefence Staff; Tukur Buratai, former Chief of… February 18, 2021 In "News"