The Nigeria Volleyball Federation has invited 16 players and four coaches ahead of next month’s Olympic Beach Volleyball qualifiers in Morocco.
The second and final rounds of qualifiers will be hosted and organise from June 21 to 28, in Morocco. A statement by Engineer Musa Nimrod, Chairman Caretaker Committee of the Nigeria Volleyball Federation (NVBF), said the invited players resumed camping in Kaduna on Sunday. Nimrod said winners of the beach volleyball events (men and women) at the 2021 National Sports Festival as well as the winners of the 2021 President Beach Volleyball Cup (men and women) were invited to camp. He revealed that the federation is in the final stages of talks with the Ghana Volleyball Federation where the national team players will continue their camping exercise before proceeding to Morocco. “It is exactly a month to the Tokyo Olympics qualifiers in Morocco and Nigeria Volleyball Federation will officially open its camp on Sunday,” Nimrod said.
“The Caretaker Committee has drawn a list of 16 players and eight coaches that will resume camp because our main goal is to be at the Olympics.   The President of Nigeria Volleyball Federation, Engineer Musa Nimrod is confident that the nation’s beach volleyball women’s team stands a chance of qualifying for the Tokyo 2021 Olympics.   Nimrod told journalists that the COVID-19 will play a vital role whenever the Confederation of Africa Volleyball decides to choose a… July 7, 2020 In "Sports" The technical committee of the Nigeria Volleyball Federation has suspended the forthcoming camping of the U-18 national female team and U-19 national male team earlier scheduled to commence on the 27th of December, 2020 in Kaduna until further notice.   The development according to the technical chairman, Martin Melandi, is… December 28, 2020 In "Sports" Chairman Osun Volleyball Association, Prince Tunde Omisore, has renovated the Osogbo volleyball court at the township stadium.   According to Lekan Adediran the coach of Osun State, the state's Volleyball chairman mobilized funds for the facelift of the dilapidated structure in the state. Adediran commended Prince Omisore for delivering one… October 11, 2020 In "Sports"