President Muhammadu Buhari has approved the allocation of 3-bedroom house to each member of the Super Eagles squad that won the African Cup of Nations in Tunis, Tunisia, in 1994. This, according to a release by his spokesman, Malam Garba Shehu, was to redeem a promise by the Federal Government to the champions 27 years ago. “Following a memo by Minister of Works and Housing, Babatunde Raji Fashola, the President approved the allocations in their states of preference, noting that six players and three technical crew members have received their houses already” Garba started in the statement. The beneficiaries are: Peter Rufai, Alloy Agu, Ike Shorounmu, Uche Okechukwu, Samson Siasia, Efan Ekoku, Sunday Oliseh, Benedict Iroha, Isaac Semitoje, Mutiu Adepoju, Emmanuel Amunike, Victor Ikpeba, Austin Eguavoen and Wilfred Agbonavbare (Deceased). Others are: Uche Okafor (Deceased), Thompson Oliha (Deceased), Stephen Keshi (Deceased), Christian Chukwu, Dr Akin Amao, Stephen Edema, Col. A Asielue and B. Aromasodun.  Lawrence Olaoye, Abuja   President Muhammadu Buhari has approved the allocation of 3-bedroom houses to the Super Eagles squad that won the African Cup of Nations 27 years ago in Tunis, Tunisia. This according to a release by his spokesman, Malam Garba Shehu, was to make real a promise by… June 24, 2021 In "Sports" T he Bachama Traditional Kingdom in Adamawa State, on Saturday night, lost its paramount ruler, Colonel Honest Stephens Irmiya (rtd).     The late Stephen Irmiya, ascended the throne in 2012 following the demise of his predecessor, Homun Asaph Zadok.     President Muhammadu Buhari, yesterday, commiserated with the family… June 29, 2020 In "Metro & Crime" President Muhammadu Buhari has mourned the death of the patriarch of the Nwodo's family in Enugu, Dr. Joe Nwodo.   In a statement made available to newsmen yesterday by his spokesman, Malam Garba Shehu, Buhari joined the Government and people of Enugu State, the Royal Family and friends in mourning… March 15, 2021 In "News"