Grammy award winner, Burna Boy, was reportedly beaten up at a Lagos club on Monday.  According to First News, Burna Boy was reportedly beaten by some “boys” loyal to the popular Nigerian footballer, Obafemi Martins. The Grammy award winner was reportedly slapped by one of the boys which resulted in club attendees coming to settle the dispute. First News, which quoted a blogger, Cute_Juls, said the Nigerian recording artiste, Wizkid, was also at the club party with the Grammy winner.  Wizkid, however, left when the dispute got heated. “Last night was total violence at Club Victoria in Lagos as one of Obafemi Martins’ boy landed dirty slaps on Burna Boy’s face “From our confirmed sources, the singer was beaten to stupor.  “It took some kind of club attenders to save the situation; by calming Oba’s boys, who appeared to be ready to beat the whole of Burna Boy’s boys who accompanied him to the club.  “It will be recalled that a couple of months ago, we reported how Burna disrespected Obafemi at a nightclub in Lagos, where one of Burna Boy’s boys landed Oba a slap   On November 24, 2020, Nigerian superstar, Burna Boy got his second Grammy nomination in the Best Global Music category. This award comes from his latest album, 'Twice As Tall.' Earlier in 2020, Burna Boy's album, African Giant lost the category to Anqelique Kidjo's reimagination of Celia Cruz's music on the… November 28, 2020 In "Arts & Entertainments" Burna Boy, Nigerian singer, has beaten Wizkid, his colleague, to clinch the ‘Best International Act’ category at the 2021 edition of the BET Awards. The awards, which honour black excellence in entertainment and sports, took place at the Microsoft Theatre in Los Angeles on Sunday. Tems also lost the ‘Best… June 28, 2021 In "Arts & Entertainments" Nigerian singer, Burna Boy, has been confirmed as one of the performers at the 2021 Grammy pre-show which will be livestreamed on GRAMMY.com on March 14. He will perform with Lido Pimienta, Poppy, Rufus Wainwright, and more ahead of the 63rd annual ceremony. Burna Boy is also nominated in the… March 3, 2021 In "Arts & Entertainments"