Nigeria’s rising model, Iyomaterie Okeoghene Gift Camille Taiwo is against the stereotype and marginalisation that exists in Nigerian modelling industry. Iyomaterie Gift Camille, who is popularly known as Thacutegeminme, in the social media space disclosed that her intention is to change the modelling convention someday. “I want to own an agency that will give those rejected by the industry an opportunity to have their dreams fulfilled,” she declared. She stated the different biased rules of the modelling industry that automatically disqualify certain people from ever achieving their dream. “The industry has certain fixed rules about height and body type which foreclosed the opportunity for some people. For example, I grew up with the ambition to become a model. I nurtured the dream, but because of my ‘5.3’ height, I was told to forget the dream of ever walking the runway. “For many, their dreams ended because their height or bodyweight was deemed not appropriate. For me, it was impossible to just abandon my dream; so I opted for face modelling instead.” Thacutegeminme, who is still an undergraduate at the University of Lagos, and has never attended any modelling course, believed those regarded as “short” also deserve to live their dreams as models, too. “In today’s world, we talk about equal opportunity; the modelling industry has to remove discrimination. We have seen the rise of plus-size beauty pageants in recent years as a response to the bias for the slim body as the standard for beauty. In the same vein, the modelling industry should do away with height discrimination. “Modelling in this age should be dynamic as to accommodate different types of models, tall, short, slim, plus-size, dark and fair.” To aspiring models, Thacutegeminme offered a piece of advice: “Do not allow anyone in life to kill your dream. They told me my height did not meet the minimum qualification and, therefore, I cannot be on the runway. I did not quit. I became a face model, and I am living my dream.”   Fast rising Nigerian model and social media influencer, Iyomaterie Okeoghene Taiwo, popularly known as  Thacutegeminme, is gradually fulfilling her dreams of establishing a modelling agency and she is driven to make the industry more favorable for models. She urged stakeholders of the modelling industry to give every human being, irrespective… May 17, 2021 In "Arts & Entertainments" On October 6, 2020, Nigerian superstar, Davido and his record label, DMW terminated the contract of its recording artist and rapper, Lil Frosh over allegations of domestic violence. Earlier on October 5, news emerged that the fast-rising rapper born, Sanni Goriola, had been called out for allegedly beating his girlfriend,… October 10, 2020 In "Arts & Entertainments" Speaking of Nigerians making our country proud abroad, Abuka Onuegbu Jonathan, popularly known as Bigg Joo on social media, is a fashion model on many spotlights in Austria. Though he is gradually gaining ground with top brands in the Austrian fashion industry, he has quite a following number on social… August 30, 2020 In "Body & Soul"