 Argentina’s president has apologised for saying that Brazilians were “from the jungle” in remarks about his country’s European heritage.
“The Mexicans came from the Indians, the Brazilians came from the jungle, but we Argentines came from the ships and they were ships that came from Europe,” Alberto Fernandez said.
The statement – a quote from a song – caused a storm on social media, reports the BBC.
Fernandez later said his country’s diversity was a source of pride.
He made the controversial remarks as he and visiting Spanish Prime Minister Pedro Sanchez met business leaders in Buenos Aires.
Fernandez said he was quoting the Mexican poet Octavio Paz, but commentators later said the offending phrase was taken from a song by Argentine musician Lito Nebbia, of whom the president is a keen admirer.
“I am a Europeanist. I am someone who believes in Europe,” Fernandez said.
The statement was aired on Brazilian media, drawing a tweet from right-wing President Jair Bolsonaro that included a photograph of himself wearing a native head-dress among a group of indigenous people.
The only text in the tweet was the word “Selva” (jungle) in capital letters.
Bolsonaro’s son, the congressman Eduardo Bolsonaro, called the comments “racist” and highlighted Argentina’s troubled economy.
“I say the ship that is sinking is that of Argentina,” he tweeted.
Fernandez later backtracked, saying: “In the first half of the 20th Century we received more than five million immigrants who lived with our native peoples. We are proud of our diversity.”
He added: “I did not mean to offend anyone, in any case, whoever has felt offended… I give my apologies.”  Former FIFA President Sepp Blatter has been handed a further six years and eight months ban from the game and fined a million Swiss francs (S$1.44 million) by the body’s Ethics Committee after a probe into massive bonus payments. Blatter’s current ban from the game was due to expire… March 25, 2021 In "Sports" Tokyo Olympics creative director Hiroshi Sasaki has resigned after making a derogatory comment about a popular female Japanese entertainer. It is the latest controversy sparked by a sexist remark made by a Games official about women. And with only four months left before the start of the event, the departure of… March 18, 2021 In "Sports" Tributes continue to pour in as Football legend Diego Maradona, one of the greatest players of all time, died at the age of 60. The former Argentina attacking midfielder and manager suffered a heart attack at his Buenos Aires home. He had successful surgery on a brain blood clot earlier… November 26, 2020 In "Sports"