Uncertainty rents the air on who qualifies for the knock-out stage in Group F since Ronaldo and Mbappé’s teams failed to win their second group match.
All Euro 2020 matches air live and in HD on affordable pay-TV platform, StarTimes as low as N1700 monthly.
The Euro 2020 group stage ends on Wednesday with crucial matches in the Group of Death. Group F contains three teams considered among the favourites to win the competition in France, Portugal and Germany, who are joined by Hungary. Only two are guaranteed safe passage to the last 16, although it is likely that all three will progress.
European champions Portugal face world champions France to get qualified for the knock-out stage while Germany faces Hungary. Both matches will be played at 8pm.
In the second group stage matches, the unexpected happened.
France needed an Antoine Griezmann goal midway through the second half to draw 1-1 with Hungary, while Portugal gave away a Cristiano Ronaldo lead in Munich against a rampant Germany that ended up winning 4-2. It was the first time that a titleholder conceded four goals.
The results leave France topping Group F with four points, Germany and Portugal both have three points, but Germany are second on the head-to-head basis. Hungary have one point  *Germany come from behind to win thriller against Portugal *Griezmann saves France as Hungary earn famous point in Budapest Robert Lewandowski scored his first goal of Euro 2020 as Poland held Spain to keep alive their hopes of reaching the knockouts. Poland knew that a defeat would mean they could… June 20, 2021 In "Sports" ...as Griezmann saves France as Hungary earn famous point in Budapest Germany got off the mark in style at Euro 2020 as they tore Portugal apart with an impressive attacking performance in Munich to throw Group F wide open. Germany's win means both these sides now sit on three points,… June 19, 2021 In "Sports" Reigning champions Portugal begin their defence of the trophy against Hungary at Euro 2020 in Budapest on Tuesday as World Cup holders France take on Germany in a hotly-anticipated clash between two of the continent's heavyweights. Cristiano Ronaldo's Portugal are set to have the honour of a full house… June 15, 2021 In "Sports"