The Nigeria Labour Congress (NLC), has vowed to resume its suspended industrial action, if within the end of its five days warning strike, the Kaduna State government fails to respect the Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) signed with workers. The NLC had on May 19 suspended its warning strike action in the state after three days, following the invitation of the Federal Government in brokering peace between both parties. Addressing journalists at the end of its National Executive Council (NEC) meeting on Tuesday in Abuja, President of the NLC, Ayuba Wabba, said the resolution to resume the strike action was reached after exhausting all avenues, including writing letters to President Muhammadu Buhari and Minister of Labour and Employment, Senator Chris Ngige. Wabba further disclosed that all state councils and affiliate unions have been directed to begin mobilisation of members who have been placed on alert for a nationwide strike which would happen without any further notice. He said: “Whereas, the NLC has remained committed to the process of reconciliation following the intervention by the Federal Government, a MoU was signed and this MoU posited that there should be a 10 person Committee to be able to ensure that all processes and procedures in disengaging any workers conforms with our national law, particularly section 20 of the Labour law.  ...commence mobilisation for nationwide industrial action The Nigeria Labour Congress (NLC), has vowed to resume its suspended industrial action, if within the end of its five days warning strike, the Kaduna State government fails to respect the Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) signed with workers. The NLC had on May 19… June 22, 2021 In "Metro & Crime" The Kaduna State Government and the Nigeria Labour Congress have reached an agreement on the plan by the state government to lay off workers. The NLC has since Monday led workers to protest against the plan by the Kaduna government to lay off the workers. The late Thursday agreement between the… May 21, 2021 In "Top Stories" After five days of crippled activities in Kaduna State, leadership of the Nigeria Labour Congress (NLC) and the Kaduna State Government has signed a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) to settle their dispute and embrace peaceful correlation, by desisting from any further industrial action or victimization of workers. To this effect,… May 21, 2021 In "News"