…as factional group suspends former CBN gov The All Progressives Grand Alliance (APGA), loyal to Governor Willie Obiano, Wednesday, elected Prof. Chukwuma Charles Soludo as its gubernatorial candidate for the Anambra State gubernatorial poll taking place in November. This is coming as the APGA faction led by Mr Jude Okeke announced the suspension of Soludo and three other chieftains of the party He further described the primary election held by the other faction as “illegal” adding that their own primaries would take place on the first day of July. Soludo, a former Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) governor, pooled 740 votes to defeat three other aspirants of the party in the primary held at Prof. Dora Akunyili Women’s Development Centre, Awka. Other contestants were Hon. Okwudili Ezenwankwo, who garnered 41 votes, Mr Ibeh (10), Mr Damian Okolo (7) and Kenechukwu Christopher (4). The Chief Returning Officer of the APGA Governorship Electoral Committee Panel, Deacon Samson Olalere, said that a total of 812 delegates were billed to participate in the election but 795 votes were accredited, while 792 votes were the total votes cast. Obiano, who is the party’s BoT Chairman, in a speech at the occasion, thanked the party delegates for the peaceful conduct during the election, noting that Soludo would win the election all over the 21 LGAs like he did in 2017. The candidate, Prof. Soludo, described his emergence as “divine”, assuring that his administration would consolidate on Obiano’s achievement to effect good government in the state.  OKEY MADUFORO reports on the plot by some members of the opposition political parties in Anambra State to ensure that the ruling All Progressives Grand Alliance (APGA) nominates an unpopular candidate for the 2021 governorship election in the state     It is an early plot by some political gladiators… June 30, 2020 In "Politics" Soludo: Grappling with APGA's hidden forces The attack on the former Governor of the Central Bank Nigeria (CBN), Prof Charles Soludo, has shown that there are serious rumblings in the All Progressives Grand Alliance (APGA) in Anambra State ahead of the governorship election in November. OKEY MADUFORO reports.   The… April 6, 2021 In "Politics" Special Adviser to the governor of Anambra State on Political Matters, Ifeatu Obiokoye, speaks on the coming Anambra governorship election, chances of the ruling All Progressive Grand Alliance (APGA) in the state, among other issues. Echezona Okafor reports Some governorship aspirants on the platform of the All Progressives Grand Alliance… May 26, 2021 In "Politics"