The Screening Committee for the All Progressives Congress (APC) governorship ticket in Anambra State has cleared the 14 aspirants that purchased the expression and nomination forms of the party. Among those cleared are: Chief George Moghalu, Managing Director of Nigeria Waterways Authority (NIWA), Sen. Emmanuel Andy Uba; Nwokafor Amobi Daniel, Hon. Paul Izuchukwu Orajiaka; Chief Edozie Madu; Dr. Chidozie Wilson Nwankwo; Mr. Maxwell S. C. Okoye; Col. AVC. Geoff Onyejegbu; Hon. Azuka Uche Okwuosa; Onwa Ikeobasi Mokelu; Igwebuikeifeanyi Hygers; Godwin C Okonkwo (Rev.); Beneth Chukwuogo Etiaba and Onunkwo Johnbosko Obinna. Submitting the report at the APC National Secretariat, Chairman of the Screening Committee, Chief Ikechi Emenike stated, “We approached this work with the spirit of patriotism, transparency and with an open heart in line with provisions of the Nigerian constitution and the party’s guidelines for the nomination of candidates”. Emenike added, “Politics is a contest, as long as they are qualified, let them go to the field”. Receiving the report on behalf of the National Chairman, the CECPC National Secretary, Sen. John Akpanudoedehe thanked the Screening Committee for serving the party. “I receive this report on behalf of the National Chairman of the party in good faith. The report will be sent to the National Chairman immediately. The National Chairman is with the President in Borno State, I am sure you are aware of that. By what you have done, you have removed the need for an Appeal Committee. We are indeed very grateful to the committee for serving the party in the Screening Exercise” Akpanudoedehe stated.   The All Progressives Congress (APC) has appointed a chieftain of the party from Abia State, Chief Ikechi Emenike, as the chairman of the screening committee for the party’s governorship ticket in Anambra State. Emenike was to lead six other members including; Hon. (Sir.) Augustine Utuk; Hon. Eugene Odo; Prof. Ben… June 10, 2021 In "News" Steve Uzoechi, Owerri While the controversies surrounding last Saturday's All Progressives Congress (APC) senatorial primary for the vacant Imo North seat continues to swirl, the APC Screening Committee for the primary Monday stunned party faithful with a fresh revelation. The Screening Committee categorically declared that one Mr. Frank Ibezim, who… September 8, 2020 In "Politics" OKEY MADUFORO reports on the prospect of the Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer of National Inland Water Ways Authority (NIWA), Dr. George Moghalu, emerging as a consensus candidate of the All Progressives Congress for the forthcoming governorship election in Anambra State   It was a well-attended meeting of some… June 8, 2021 In "Politics"