The Minister of Labour and Employment, Senator Chris Ngige, has said President Muhammadu Buhari is afraid of breaching any law or the constitution of the country. Also, the senior pastor of Citadel Global Community Church, Pastor Tunde Bakare, has said he should not be blamed for the failure of President Buhari. Speaking on ‘News Night’ on Channels Television, Ngige said it was imperative for Nigerians to understand the leadership dynamism of Buhari. According to him, Buhari is a democrat and pointed out that former President Olusegun Obasanjo will not give Nigerians the freedom they are enjoying under the current administration. Ngige said: “There must be a limit to politicking. If a government has done well, if a president has done well; you should give him in the areas of doing well. Areas he has not done well, point them out and discuss. “This president is a democrat, and he is so afraid of breaching the constitution or any law; he is so afraid of it. I’m even stronger than him in terms of that. “In what country? Even President Obasanjo, can he give you people this latitude? He will not. I know him. My dad or my granddad Obasanjo or senior uncle, he will not grant you people that. This president is now a willing horse and you people want to ride him to death.” Meanwhile, Bakare, who ran as vice president to Buhari in 2011, described himself to the biblical prophet Samuel, who anointed Saul as Israel’s king, saying that his support for President Buhari in 2015 and 2019 did not make him a worthless prophet. Speaking in an online event organised by PTB- 4Nigeria in Canada, Bakare said: “The problems he inherited and the ones created by him will not make me say let’s throw the bathwater and the baby out. Are there some things that have been accomplished? “You just have to come down and see things for yourself compared to where we were and where we are right now.” While describing his support for Buhari to how the biblical Samuel anointed Saul, Bakare stated: “But anybody that wants to blame me for 2011, 2015, and 2019 should also blame Samuel for anointing Saul.” He further stated: “It was God who spoke to Samuel, brought Saul to Samuel and asked him to anoint him as captain over his people. “That Saul rebelled against God; that Saul did not perform according to the plan and purpose of God does not make Samuel a worthless prophet. To those who want to take me to the cleaners, congratulations. I have done something. May God grant you grace to do your own.”   The two-week political face-off between Governor Willie Obiano of Anambra State and Prince Arthur Ezeh deepened during the week following the entrance into the fray by former governor and Minister of Labour and Employment, Senator Chris Ngige who is insisting that Eze should be sanctioned.   Though there appeared to… September 6, 2020 In "News" Muhammad Kabir, Kano The former Governor of Jigawa State, Sule Lamido has attacked the National Leader of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Ahmed Bola Tinubu, the Minister of Transport, Rotimi Ameachi and the Minister of Labour, Dr Chris Ngige for failing to openly speak for the protection of Fulanis… January 28, 2021 In "Top Stories" "The only reason to vote for a democrat is if you're tired of winning" – Donald Trump "Why are we having all these people from shit-hole countries come here." That was the impudent question put forward by President Donald Trump to the American congress while discussing the migrant issue. Notwithstanding… November 12, 2020 In "Back Page Columnist"