 Musa Pam, Jos The Plateau State Police Command has confirmed the arrest of some suspects in connection with the murder of the Senior Special Assistant to Benue State Governor, Samuel Ortom on Security, AIG Christopher Dega (rtd) who was shot dead on Tuesday.
Police Public Relations Officer in the state, ASP Gabriel Ogba in a statement issued to journalists in Jos on Wednesday, was, however, silent on where the arrests were made.
“The Plateau State Police Command on a sad note received an ugly report of the death of AIG Christopher Dega (rtd).
“On 31/05/2021 at about 2030hrs, AIG Christopher Dega (rtd) was shot dead by three yet to be identified gunmen in an isolated restaurant at Bukuru, Jos.
“From the investigation so far, it appeared that he was trailed and shot.
“He arrived at Jos from Makurdi on the same date at about 1930hrs, Some suspects have been arrested,” the statement said.
The Police, however, noted that investigation is ongoing.
New Telegraph learnt that before Dega’s retirement, he had served as Commissioner of Police in Borno and Edo states.  Police yesterday paraded 39 suspects arrested in different parts of Plateau State for crimes such as kidnapping, armed robbery, culpable homicide and unlawful possession of firearms. Among the suspects were those who reportedly robbed and killed a professor and a female lawyer. Parading the suspects at the state Police Command… February 11, 2021 In "Metro & Crime" Musa Pam, Jos At least 15 persons, mostly women and children, were on Sunday night killed by suspected Fulani herdsmen in Dong village in Jos North Local Government and Kwi Village in Riyom Local Government Area of Plateau State. A resident of Dong village told New Telegraph on Monday… May 24, 2021 In "Metro & Crime" Armed men on Wednesday night attacked former Minister of Sports and the immediate past Chairman of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in Plateau State, Hon. Damishi Sango. The state Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO), ASP Ubah Ogaba, yesterday confirmed the attack to New Telegraph in Jos. The gunmen invaded Sango's… April 2, 2021 In "Metro & Crime"