The leadership of the Lagos State chapter of the Sports Writers Association of Nigeria (Lagos SWAN) has commended the Governor of Lagos State, Babajide Sanwo-Olu, over his continued support for sports and quality leadership.  The Executive Committee, under the leadership of Debo Oshundun, applauded the latest announcement which saw the official hand over of a 3-bedroom flat at the Babatunde Raji Fashola Housing Estate, Iponri, to the First Olympic Gold Medalist in Nigeria and in Africa, Chioma Ajunwa- Okpara (MON), in fulfillment of a 25-year-old pledge made by the then Governor, Olagunsoye Oyinlola.  The gesture, according to the association, will not only encourage others to strive for greatness, but is also a testimony of the labours of our heroes not being in vain.  “We wish to thank His Excellency for this noble gesture of honoring our heroes, and in the process, encouraging those coming behind,” the association said. “Recently, he handed Patrick Pascal a key to his apartment for his exploits at the Atlanta ’96 Games.  “Now, it is the turn of Chioma Ajunwa (Assistant Commissioner of Police) for being the first athlete to win Nigeria’s first individual gold medal at any Olympics.”  In a related development, a whopping sum of 20 Million was also doled out to six Lagos elite athletes that would be representing Nigeria at the Tokyo 2020 Olympics in Japan. Jide Omotayo (Table Tennis), Seye Ogunlewe (Athletics), Ahmed Koleoso (Para table tennis), Adijat Olayori (Weightlifting), Anuoluwapo Olayori (Badminton) and Godwin Ofolu (Badminton) were all given money as training grants by the state as part of support for Team Nigeria as they intensify preparation for the games.   TEMITOPE OGUNBANKE writes on achievements of Lagos State governor, Mr. Babajide Sanwo-Olu, who clocked 55 yesterday Lagos State governor, Mr. Babajide Sanwo-Olu clocked 55 yesterday. At 55, Sanwo-Olu, not only stands tall among his contemporaries, but remains a model to his generation. Born on June 25, 1965 in Lagos State,… June 26, 2020 In "Politics" …as Patrick Pascal gets house gift Lagos State Governor, Babajide Sanwo-Olu is excited about the return of Super Eagles to Lagos, 20 years after the senior national team last played in the state. Sanwo-Olu, during a dinner he hosted at the State House Marina was particularly happy that the City… March 26, 2021 In "Sports" ...vows to erect CAN Secretariat in Lagos   Bishop Stephen Adegbite, the newly elected Chairman of the Christian Association of Nigeria (CAN) Lagos chapter, has appointed the Lagos State Governor, Mr. Babajide Sanwo- Olu, Grand Patron of the Christian Association of Nigeria Lagos chapter.   The CAN also declared intention… February 28, 2021 In "Faith"