President Muhammadu Buhari, yesterday, forwarded to the Senate an executive bill seeking to increase the retirement age for teachers in the country from 60 to 65 years. The bill also seeks to extend the years of service for teachers from 35 to 40 years. President Buhari, in a letter addressed to the President of the Senate, Ahmad Lawan and read on the floor, explained that when passed into law, the bill would provide for a harmonised retirement age for teachers in Nigeria. According to him, the move to increase the retirement age and service years was pursuant to Section 58(2) of the 1999 Constitution as amended. The letter reads: “Transmission of the Harmonised Retirement Age for Teachers in Nigeria Bill 2021 to the National Assembly for consideration. “Pursuant to Section 58 subsection 2 of the 1999 Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria (as amended) I forward herewith the harmonised retirement age for teachers in Nigeria Bill, 2021 for consideration by the Senate. “The harmonised retirement age for teachers in Nigeria bill 2021 seeks to increase the retirement age for teachers from 60 to 65 years and also increase the possible years of service from 35 to 40 years. “While appreciating your usual expeditious consideration of this submission, please accept, Distinguished Senate President, the assurances of my highest consideration.” In another development, the President of the Senate has referred the President’s request for the confirmation of Major General Farouk Yahaya as Chief of Army Staff of the Armed Forces of the Federal Republic of Nigeria to the Committees on Defence and Army. The Defence Committee, which is chaired by Senator Aliyu Wamakko, was mandated to be the lead Committee to screen the newly appointed Army Chief.   Members of Non-Academic Staff Union of Educational and Associated Institutions (NASU), on Wednesday ended their threeday nationwide protest with a resolution to ensure that nonteaching staff of primary and post-primary schools are duly recognised by being included in the Harmonised Retirement Age for Teachers in Nigeria Bill (2021). The bill… March 26, 2021 In "News" Chukwu David ABUJA   President Muhammadu Buhari, yesterday, requested the Senate to consider for approval, the Finance bill 2020, in support of the 2021 budget, which is currently before the National Assembly. Buhari made the request in a letter dated 25th November, 2020, and read during plenary by the President… December 2, 2020 In "News" Lawyers: Planned 75 years’ retirement age’ll erode quality of justice system   AKEEM NAFIU writes that lawyers have advised the National Assembly to resist the invitation of considering retirement age of Justices of the Supreme Court from 70 to 75 years in order to avoid aggravating the mirage of problems… February 15, 2021 In "Law"