Kebbi State Police Command on Saturday confirmed that bandits killed 88 residents of Danko/ Wasagu Local Government Area of the State on Thursday.  The Command’s Public Relations Officer (PPRO), DSP Nafi’u Abubakar who confirmed the figure, said all the victims were killed in eight communities in the local government area.  According to him, the command has so far recovered the 88 bodies and dispatched a detachment of operatives to maintain law and order in the affected communities.  He said: “The killings took place in Koro, Kimpi, Gaya, Dimi, Zutu, Rafin Gora and Iguenge villages, all in Danko/Wasagu LGA of Kebbi State. “Initially, the bodies recovered were 66 but as I am talking to you now, about 88 bodies have been recovered.”  In April, bandits killed nine police officers, in the area, including the Divisional Police Officer (DPO) as they were responding to a distress call. Meanwhile, the Kaduna State government said bandits killed five persons in Chikun and Igabi Local Government Areas (LGAs) of the state.  The Commissioner for Internal Security and Home Affairs, Mr Samuel Aruwan, said this in a statement on Saturday. Aruwan explained that the bandits killed two persons in Chikun LGA and razed two buildings including a place of worship in the area.  The commissioner said the other three were killed at Lambar Zango area along the Kaduna-Zaria Road in Igabi LGA. He said Governor Nasir El-Rufai had consoled the families of the victims and prayed God to grant the deceased eternal rest  Police in Kebbi State have said 66 people were killed by bandits in Danko-Wasagu Local Government Area of the state. The spokesperson of the state's Police Command, DSP Nafiu Abubakar, said the massacre took place on Thursday in eight villages of the council. According to him, though the police were… June 5, 2021 In "Metro & Crime" ...injure many, abduct several villagers Recruit, train youths in Kebbi Bandits numbering about 100 yesterday attacked a Joint Security Task Force camp in Shiroro Local Government Area of Niger State and killed seven people, among them five soldiers. The Joint Force, which comprises the Army, Police, Nigeria Security and Civil… April 2, 2021 In "Metro & Crime" Police have apprehended three teenage serial rapists who allegedly defiled and killed a 13-year-old girl in Danmusa Local Government Area of Katsina State. The state Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO), SP Gambo Isah, disclosed this while parading the suspects before journalists at the state Police Command Headquarters in Katsina. Isah… August 21, 2020 In "Metro & Crime"