*Threaten to lodge complaints before AU, UN Two non-governmental organisations, Media Rights Agenda (MRA) and the International Press Centre (IPC) Monday condemned the Federal Government’s indefinite suspension of Twitter in Nigeria and threatened to lodge a formal complaint before the appropriate agencies of the African Union (AU) and the United Nations (UN) if the ban is not immediately rescinded, arguing that the action is an unjustifiable violation of the rights of all Nigerians to freedom of expression and access to information, while also contravening the relevant instruments of both bodies.
In a statement issued in Lagos, the organisations condemned the government’s action as a violation of international norms and standards, citing the African Commission on Human and Peoples Rights’ Resolution 362 on the Right to Freedom of Information and Expression on the Internet in Africa, adopted on November 4, 2016 at its 59th Ordinary Session; the Declaration of Principles on Freedom of Expression and Access to Information in Africa, adopted by the Commission in November 2019, at its 65th Ordinary Session; and recent UN Human Rights Council resolutions touching on the matter.
In the statement signed by MRA’s Executive Director, Mr. Edetaen Ojo; and the Executive Director of IPC, Mr. Lanre Arogundade, the organisations noted that in its Resolution 362 of 2016, the African Commission has expressed concern at the practice by African states of “interrupting or limiting access to telecommunication services such as the Internet, social media and messaging services.”
Besides, they said, the Declaration of Principles also provides in Principle 38 (1) and (2) that: “States shall not interfere with the right of individuals to seek, receive and impart information through any means of communication and digital technologies, through measures such as the removal, blocking or filtering of content, unless such interference is justifiable and compatible with international human rights law and standards” and that “States shall not engage in or condone any disruption of access to the internet and other digital technologies for segments of the public or an entire population.”
The organisations also cited the UN Human Rights Council resolution on the promotion, protection and enjoyment of human rights on the Internet, adopted at its 38th Session in July 2018, in it asked “all States to address security concerns on the Internet in accordance with their international human rights obligations to ensure the protection of all human rights online, in particular freedom of opinion and expression, freedom of association, and privacy, including through democratic and transparent national institutions, based on the rule of law, in a way that ensures freedom and security on the Internet so that it can continue to be a vibrant force that generates economic, social and cultural development.”
The organisations called on the Federal Government to urgently take steps to comply with these internationally agreed norms and standards and retrace its steps from its current path, which puts Nigeria in danger of becoming a rogue nation that is constantly violating international human rights law as well as the principles of international law.
Ojo, said: “The government’s claim on the persistent use of the platform for activities that are capable of undermining Nigeria’s corporate existence is not only unsubstantiated, but is clearly bogus and illogical. The pertinent questions here are: who is the government accusing of using the platform for activities capable of undermining Nigeria’s corporate existence? Is it the owners of Twitter that are posting such tweets? Is it foreigners using the platform for such activities? Or is it all Nigerians who are on Twitter or some of those Nigerians who use Twitter? The government needs to be specific on this.”
Similarly, Arogundade said: “On the surface the government claims it is fighting Twitter but in reality what it is doing is waging war against its own citizens by infringing on their fundamental and socio-economic rights despite their being constitutionally guaranteed. If anything, the threat by the Minister of Justice, Mr. Abubakar Malami (SAN), to prosecute anyone that disobeys the ban is indicative of the fact that if this government has its way all social media platforms would be shut down because they have become veritable avenues for citizens to express their disaffection with its acts of mis-governance.”  The Socio-Economic Rights and Accountability Project (SERAP) has disclosed that it will be taking the Nigerian government to court for suspending the activities of social media giant, Twitter in Nigeria. SERAP, in a statement made available to the media on Friday, revealed that it will be suing the federal authorities… June 4, 2021 In "News" A rights organisation, the Socio-Economic Rights and Accountability Project (SERAP) has strongly condemned the reported violent attacks on #RevolutionNow protesters in Abuja, Osogbo and other parts of the country. It said the action of security operatives violates citizens' rights to peaceful assembly. In a statement signed by its Deputy Director,… August 5, 2020 In "News" The Nigerian Bar Association, a Constitutional Lawyer, Chief Mike Ozekhome SAN and other prominent lawyers yesterday faulted the Federal Government's decision to suspend Twitter in Nigeria. Also, the United States Mission in Nigeria yesterday cautioned the Federal Government against the suspension of operations of Twitter in the country.   In… June 6, 2021 In "News"