Former Super Eagles captain, Mikel Obi, has charged Nigeria’s track and field team to the delayed 2020 Olympic Games to aim high for the gold medals on offer in their respective events.
The Chelsea of England legend made the charge Sunday evening at the Southern Sun Hotel, Ikoyi, Lagos where he dined with some of the athletes who have qualified to represent Nigeria at the quadrennial games.
”I am happy to be in the midst of you guys,” the retired national team captain said.
“I know you are going to a major tournament which I have been to and I know what it takes to be there and to compete there and to try to win something for our great nation.
”It’s my pleasure to be here tonight to wish you guys all the best and hopefully, you will bring back all the gold medals at the Olympics.
”So when you guys come back, we will celebrate with you, cheer with and I wish you guys all the very best and good luck.”
Minister of Youth and Sports Development, Sunday Dare, hosted the track and field athletes to the dinner to thank them for making the Athletics Federation of Nigeria Olympic Trials a huge success.  Youth and Sports Development Minister chief Sunday Dare is confident Nigeria's 13-year wait for a track and field medal at the Olympics will end this year at the Tokyo Games.   Nigeria last won a track and field medal at the Beijing Olympics in 2008 when the women's 4x100m relay… April 12, 2021 In "Sports" The just concluded Edo 2020 National Sports Festival was full mixed grill of results. The surprise package was Bayelsa State with a total of 56 gold medals. The state emerged third behind Delta and Edo.   Looking at the overall medals table, it was strange to find Bayelsa in the… April 20, 2021 In "Editorial" There are many aspects of the just concluded 20th National Sports Festival that deserve public discourse. There were surprise winners, records were broken and new ones created. Surprises can come in various ways but largely the festival, Nigeria’s version of the Olympic Games, was a huge success despite the threat… April 17, 2021 In "Sports"