Ex-agitators (militants) undocumented of Niger Delta led by General Prince Eyeyon has appealed to President Muhammadu Buhari to document the third phase of the ex-militants undocumented and pay them their stipends in order to reduce tension in the region before the electoral cycle year of 2023.  General Eyeyon, who spoke to journalists yesterday, also welcomed the appointment of Comr. Alfred Kemepado Nimizigha as head of Presidential Amnesty Programme (PAP) describing it as timely and responsive.  He said: “This time we will not allow anyone to deprive us of our rights because many of our members have died of frustration, sicknesses and hunger due to the struggle of the third phase documentation.”    The ex-agitators further drew the attention of the new Amnesty boss, to note that their engagement was to serve the interest of the ex-agitators of the Niger Delta region and not to impose on them antagonistic conditions that will jeopardize the peace of the region.  General Eyeyon expressed optimism that he has confidence that Kemepado will deplore his expertise in the discharge of duties assigned to him to document them.  While speaking on the spate of the increasing neglect of the ex-militants undocumented that has been neglected over the years, the leadership of the group lamented poor treatment on himself and his crew since the very day of documentation. “Many are in anguish without any form of encouragement from the Federal Government, after they were deceived to surrender their guns.  Many of our members are dead due to hardships, many could not meet up with their daily responsibilities, some fell sick and could not recover from the sickness, there is hunger, lack of jobs and bad leadership are the teething problems responsible for the increasing spate of agitations,” he said.  Ex-militant leaders have challenged themselves to end sea piracy and kidnapping in the Niger Delta region in a bid to foster the development of the communities. They also pledged to work with the Presidential Amnesty Programme to see to the achievement of its objectives.   This was part of the… December 25, 2020 In "Business" It has been more than five months since Prof. Charles Dokubo was removed as the coordinator of the Presidential Amnesty Office. He was suspended and an Interim Management Committee was put in place. Since then, Niger Deltans have waited to see his replacement to no avail. PAULINE ONYIBE in Yenagoa,… July 17, 2020 In "News" ...programme can't be indefinite –NSA The Interim Coordinator of the Niger Delta Amnesty programme, Col. Milland Dikio (rtd.), yesterday said the agency owed contractors the sum of N71.4 billion. He also noted that the programme was derailed from its original focus by endemic corruption, stressingthatthecurrent structure could not be sustained.… October 10, 2020 In "News"