  Sergio Ramos is set to leave Real Madrid after the club announced a “farewell” news conference for their long-serving captain on Thursday.
Ramos, 35, has won five La Liga titles and four Champions Leagues in a glittering Real career after joining from boyhood club Sevilla in 2005, reports the BBC.
The centre-back made 671 appearances, scoring 101 goals.
The club say they will hold the news conference as an “institutional act of tribute and farewell”.
Having started his career at Sevilla, Ramos joined Real in 2005 in a record deal for a Spanish defender during Florentino Perez’s first term as club president.
Widely regarded as one of the greatest central defenders of his generation, Ramos has won 22 trophies at the Santiago Bernabeu and memorably scored a 93rd-minute equaliser in the 2014 Champions League final when Real beat rivals Atletico Madrid 4-1 after extra time to win their 10th European Cup (La Decima).
However, Ramos was unable to agree a new deal with Los Blancos and will become a free agent a little more than a month after being left out of Luis Enrique’s Spain squad for Euro 2020.
The defender has won 180 caps for his country, winning two European Championships in 2008 and 2012 and the World Cup in 2010.  Sergio Ramos is set to leave Real Madrid after the club announced a "farewell" news conference for their long-serving captain on Thursday. Ramos, 35, has won five La Liga titles and four Champions Leagues in a glittering Real career after joining from boyhood club Sevilla in 2005, reports the BBC.… June 16, 2021 In "Sports" *Defender turns down approaches from Liverpool, PSG *Mario Mandzukic set to return to Europe with Milan David Alaba has reached an agreement to join Real Madrid on a free transfer in the summer, bringing to an end an 13-year spell at Bayern Munich. The defender will sign a four-year deal with… January 19, 2021 In "Sports" •As Madristas face Bilbao When Cristiano Ronaldo departed Real Madrid two summers ago, Los Blancos faithful expected either Karim Benzema or embattled Gareth Bale to take the talismanic role the Portuguese vacated but both players have not assumed that position and it is their captain, a defender Sergio Ramos, who… July 4, 2020 In "Back Page Columnist"