 The National Broadcasting Commission (NBC) has directed all broadcast stations in the country to suspend the patronage of Twitter with immediate effect.
The NBC said the decision followed the suspension of Twitter operations in Nigeria by the Federal Government over the persistent use of the platform for activities that are capable of undermining the corporate existence of Nigeria.
The Commission directed the broadcast stations to “de-install Twitter handles and desist from using Twitter as a source (UGC) of information gathering for news and programmes presentation especially phone-in.”
The acting Director-General of the NBC, Prof. Armstrong Idachaba, issued the directive in a statement on Monday titled: “Suspend Twitter handles.”
He said: “Consequent on the suspension of Twitter operations in Nigeria by the Federal Government over the persistent use of the platform for activities that are capable of undermining the corporate existence of Nigeria, the National Broadcasting Commission directs all Broadcasting Stations in Nigeria to suspend the patronage of Twitter immediately.
“In Compliance to the above directive, Broadcasting Stations are hereby advised to de-install Twitter handles and desist from using Twitter as a source (UGC) of information gathering for News and programmes Presentation especially phone-in.
“Section 2(1) r of the NBC Act entrusts the Commission with responsibility to ensure strict adherence to the national laws, rules and regulations. Also, Section 3.11.2 of the Nigeria Broadcasting Code provides that “the broadcaster shall ensure that law enforcement is upheld at all times in a matter depicting that law and order are socially superior to or more desirable than crime and anarchy.
“Attention is also drawn to section 5.6.3 of The Code which requires Broadcasters to be mindful of materials that may cause disaffection, incite to panic or rift in the society in the use of a user generated content (UGC).
“Note that it will be unpatriotic for any broadcaster in Nigeria to continue to patronise the suspended Twitter as a source of its information therefore strict compliance is enjoined.”  The Federal Government has suspended, indefinitely, the operations of the microblogging and social networking service, Twitter, in Nigeria. The Minister of Information and Culture, Alhaji Lai Mohammed, announced the suspension in a statement issued in Abuja on Friday, citing the persistent use of the platform for activities that are… June 4, 2021 In "Top Stories" Following the deleting of President Muhammadu Buhari’s alleged genocidal threat by Twitter, the Federal Government has suspended the operation of the microblogging and social networking service, in the country, indefinitely. Minister of Information and Culture, Alhaji Lai Mohammed, who announced the suspension in a statement issued in Abuja on Friday,… June 5, 2021 In "News" The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has described the suspension of the social media platform, Twitter, by the federal government as a draconian action. PDP in a statement by the National Publicity Secretary, Kola Ologbondiyan, regretted that Nigeria is sliding towards a fascist state. The party said the suspension of twitter… June 5, 2021 In "News"