Minister of Humanitarian Affairs, Disaster Management and Social Development Sadiya Umar Farouq, has said that the National Home Grown School Feeding Programme will address the problem of malnutrition among children in Nigeria. The Minister disclosed this in Ilorin during a courtesy visit to Gov. Abdul- Razaq AbdulRahman. The Minister, who was represented by the Special Assistant to the President on the National Social Investment Programme (SAPNSIP), Dr Nasiru Mahmud, said the delegation was Kwara State to assess its preparedness for the implementation of National Home Grown School Feeding Programme. She added that the programme will also boost local economy because the food is bought from local farmers and vendors, noting that it will create a long value chain. Noting that the national ongoing school feeding programme is one of the four interventions implemented under the National Social Investment Programme. Adding that Kwara is one of the two states in Nigeria that are not enrolled into the programme. In her Response, the National Social Investment Programme in Kwara, Hajia Bashirat Abdulrazaq, assured the Minister’s team of the state government’s readiness for the programme. She said over 1,947 cooks were on ground to benefit from the programme, adding that there would be revalidation as the programme goes on. The State Governor, AbdulRahman AbdulRazaq commended the federal government for the programme. AbdulRazaq, who was represented by his deputy, Kayode Alabi, said the programme would reduce the number of out of school children. He added that the programme would help local farmers and create employment opportunities.  The Kwara State government yesterday commenced a week-long medical screening exercise for 4,500 food vendors ahead of the official take-off of its Home Grown School Feeding Programme in the state.   "We are screening 4,500 food vendors across the 16 local government areas for students of Primaries One to Six.… January 26, 2021 In "News" The Federal Government yesterday said it had received over three million applications from prospective NPower enrollees, in seven days. The Federal Ministry of Humanitarian Affairs, Disaster Management and Social Development also announced the transitioning of Independent Monitors recruited to monitor Batch A and B of the N-Power programme as well… July 4, 2020 In "News" The Federal Government through the Ministry of Humanitarian Affairs, Disaster Management and Social Development, has increased the National Social Investment Programmes (NSIP) comprising the Home-Grown School FeedingProgramme(HGSFP), Job Creation Unit (N-Power), Conditional Cash Transfer (CCT) and Government Enterprise and Empowerment Programme (GEEP), to accommodate more beneficiaries.   TheMinisterof Humanitarian Affairs,… December 1, 2020 In "News"