 Stephen Olufemi Oni, Ilorin Suspected ritualists have reportedly murdered a young woman, Hassana Mohammed, in Kaiama Local Government Area of Kwara State.
A statement by the spokesman of the Nigeria Security and Civil Defence Corps (NSCDC) body of a young woman has been reportedly dumped along Kanikoko area of Kaiama, Kwara North senatorial district with her vagina and breasts removed.
A statement by the spokesman of the Nigeria Security and Civil Defence Corps (NSCDC), Babawale Zaid Afolabi, said the suspected ritualists “on Thursday, 10th of June, 2021 murdered one Hassana Mohammed and dumped her dead body along Kanikoko road in Kaiama.
“The deceased was  not found at home and she was not picking her phone calls. Security agencies were alerted and the vigilantes, on search of the girl, she was found dead along Kanikoko road, Kaiama.
“Upon medical examination, it was discovered that, her vagina and breasts were removed by suspected ritualists.
“She was buried on Friday morning after necessary examinations, while investigation is ongoing to unravel the dastardly incident and bring the perpetrators to justice.”  A 60-year-old man, Jeremiah Oyedokun, is in police net for having canal knowledge of nine-year-old girl (name withheld) in Kaiama, headquarters of Kaiama Local Government Area in Kwara State. A statement by the spokesman of the Kwara State Command of the Nigerian Security and Civil Defence Corps (NSCDC), Babawale Zaid… May 29, 2021 In "Metro & Crime" Iniobong Umoren was a young woman in her mid 20's who lived in Uyo the Akwa Ibom State capital.   She shared, on Twitter, her need for a job, and one Twitter user named Uduak Akpan asked her for a private chat concerning her application.   According to police reports,… May 10, 2021 In "Back Page Columnist" Operatives of the Nigeria Security and Civil Defence Corps (NSCDC), Kwara State Command, have arrested six suspected members of two rival cult groups in Ilorin, the state capital.   The suspected cultists said to belong to 'Abata' and 'Aye' cult groups were about to strike at Dada area, Okelele, Ilorin… May 15, 2021 In "Metro & Crime"