 Grammy award-winning Beninaise artiste, Angelique Kidjo has revealed she was afraid for Nigeria during the #EndSARS protest that took place in October 2o20.
According to Angelique Kidjo, she thought a war was going to break out.
In an interview with Apple Music 1, Kidjo said: “When the #EndSARS movement started in Lagos; I was worried for everybody— my family members and other people I know.
“I then decided to reach out to Yemi Alade to find out how she was doing; especially when they started shooting at people.
“She (Alade) said to me, ‘Mum, I’m afraid. They are killing us’. I then told her to please stay off the streets. Let’s use music as a message of hope; and tell what you want to say to people.”
On why she decided to feature younger African artistes (such as Mr Eazi and Yemi Alade) on her latest album, Angelique Kidjo said: “I was saying to myself that I had been so vocal about the needs, struggle, success and resilience of my continent.
“I thought it was about time that we brought young artistes from Africa into the conversation, for them to give us the view of which Africa they want and which society they want to live in.
“(It was about having a conversation on) how they can participate artistically, economically and politically in the world they want to live in, and also how they can be the change they want to see.”  Musical artist and UNICEF Nigeria Ambassador Cobhams Asuquo has called on Nigerians to have confidence in the COVID-19 vaccine and ensure children receive their routine immunisations to prevent deadly diseases. The call came on as the world celebrated World Health Day today, April 7. Cobhams was joined in the call… April 7, 2021 In "Health" American music icon, Janet Jackson, has joined other international celebrities who have backed the #EndSars protest in Nigeria. Joining Jackson is Rihanna and Nicki Minaj, who have also reacted to the #EndSARS protest in the country.   Young Nigerians all over the world have in the past two weeks taken… October 24, 2020 In "Arts & Entertainments" Jemiriye Adeniji is a Nigerian singer, songwriter and performing artist, based in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, United States of America. She was one of the talented singers who thrilled music lovers at the Nigerian Idol competition. Though she did not win, Jemiriye Adeniji had other plans after she left Nigeria. Aside performing… March 28, 2021 In "Body & Soul"