 Leader of Xploit Comedy, Lazarus Emmanuel Chibugo, aka,  Brizy, has said that the wave-making  comedy group started from the church.
Since the group started cracking jokes to the delight of fans all over the world, the popularity of the comedians has soared as fans have been converted to robotic followers who soak in the fun of the different comedy skits in the digital space.
Speaking in a recent encounter with journalists, Lazarus Emmanuel Chibugo said Xploit Comedy has born, bred and transformed into a social media sensation.
According to Lazarus Emmanuel Chibugo: “We actually picked the name, Xploit from the Bible a few years ago when we were part of a drama team in the church.
“We picked the name from the book of Daniel 11:32, which says that those that know their God shall be strong and do exploits. So we took the name exploit from that verse. We only decided to spell it in a more ‘funky’ manner
“We all started from the church; the drama group department and from there, we gained admission into the Imo State University. In school, we continued with our drama in the church we joined and that was where we formed the Xploit Drama Group.”
Unequivocally, the comedy sector in Nigerian has recently seen an unprecedented increase in the amount of young, talented comedians, most of them passed through tough start-ups and the struggle for visibility, this is not different for Xploit Comedy.
“In every business, starting up is tough; in comedy, it is the hardest. There is a crazy struggle for visibility, but when you’re focused you will always achieve what you set your mind to achieve.
“The Nigerian economy isn’t very conducive for comedians but we will always find a way to make it happen here,” Lazarus Emmanuel Chibugo, aka Brizy added.
The  indigene of Imo State said that one quality that helped to throw him and team members into limelight despite the many setbacks and problems that they have encountered was doggedness.
“I think the only way I could achieve what I have achieved today is by not giving up because there were times I wanted to give up, and probably choose another career path.”
However, Lazarus Emmanuel Chibugo  noted that social media celebrity status has in different ways opened big doors for Xploit Comedy
“It has opened doors in so many, for instance, it has helped us meet so many influential people who have helped us with favours,” he said.  Kemi Ikuseedun, more known as Kemz Mama or simply Mummy Wa thanks to her character as the housewife in comedian, Mr. Macaroni’s skit, identifies as an actress and content creator. In this interview with ROSEMARY NWOSU, she reminisced on her acting journey so far and explains how she bagged the… September 19, 2020 In "Arts & Entertainments" Call him ‘fine boy’ or call him ‘wowo’, you could argue his looks but not his craft. Born Fagade Olufemi Ademola, the immensely talented comedian, actor, musician, interior decorator and painter has a career spanning two decades under his belt. In this interview with YUSUFF ADEBAYO, he reminisces on his… January 23, 2021 In "Arts & Entertainments" Sunday Adah, popularly known as Sunny Adahson, is a Jos based actor, stand-up comedian and visual artist. The winner of the Rap Challenge competition 2020 by Pherewshuz, talks about challenges and prospects of stand-up comedy in Jos, his music career, how working with the acclaimed Jos Repertory Theatre (JRT) has… January 22, 2021 In "Arts & Entertainments"