The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has threatened to go to court to recover its mandate if Zamfara State Governor, Bello Matawalle defects from the party to the All Progressives Congress (APC) as is being speculated.  Matawalle is expected to join APC this Tuesday. But PDP said it amounts to the governor vacating his seat. PDP National Publicity Secretary, Kola Ologbobdiyan, at a press conference in Abuja, said: “No law allows him to cross over to any other party with the governorship mandate statutorily given to the PDP through the ballot box, as already established by the provision of the 1999 Constitution (as amended) and the standing judgement of the Supreme Court.”  The Supreme Court had declared that APC, by virtue that its primary was flawed, did not participate in the 2019 Zamfara governorship election. Ologbobdiyan argued that: “A combined reading of Section 221 of the 1999 Constitution as the pronouncements of the Supreme Court in Faleke v. INEC (2016) is clear in holding that it is the political party that stands for election.”  According to him, the apex court held that: “Votes scored in elections belong to the political party and that the candidate nominated to contest at an election by his party, acts only as the agent of his party.”  He warned members of the National and Zamfara State House of Assembly, not to allow themselves to be pushed into losing their seats as the provisions of the constitution is very clear in barring lawmakers from cross carpeting, except in a situation of a division in the political party upon which platform they were elected.  The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has threatened to go to court to recover its mandate if Zamfara State Governor, Bello Matawalle defects from the party to the All Progressives Congress (APC) as is being speculated. Matawalle is expected to join APC this Tuesday. But PDP said it amounts to the… June 28, 2021 In "News" There was disquiet in the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) over the rumoured defection of Zamafara State governor, Bello Matawalle from the party to the All Progressives Congress (APC).   Matawalle will be the third PDP governor to leave the party after that of Ebonyi and Cross River States, Dave Umahi… June 28, 2021 In "News" Nigeria’s main opposition party, the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has said that the no-fly zone declared in Zamfara State is a plot by the All Progressives Congress (APC)-led Federal Government to declare a state of emergency in the state. PDP National Publicity Secretary, Kola Ologbondiyan, at a press conference in… March 4, 2021 In "News"