The Department of State Services (DSS) has arrested Prince Bodmas Kemepadei, the Senior Special Assistant to Bayelsa State Governor, Senator Duoye Diri, over “a clear case of alleged incitement against the Federal Republic of Nigeria”. New Telegraph gathered from highly-placed security and intelligence sources that Kemepadei was picked up by personnel of the DSS, shortly after analysing a video he was said to have made, which was considered detrimental to national security and peace. In the video obtained by this newspaper, the SSA could be heard allegedly calling on the public to “wake up” as, according to him, the nation has allegedly lost direction. “This country is no longer safe; the only person that is safe in this country is President Muhammadu Buhari”, he said in the video. He continued: “And the only reason why Buhari is safe, is because he understands that Nigeria is no longer safe. “And so, therefore (sic), he has isolated himself. “My people, my Nigerians, all of you should wake up…nothing is working again in this country. “The security architecture of this country has fallen. “We don’t know our left, we don’t know our left “We don’t know where we are going as a people”. It was learnt that the detained official may be a close ally of Chief Government Ekpemupolo (a.k.a Tompolo). When contacted on the arrest of Kemepadei, spokesperson for the DSS, Dr. Peter Afunanya, said it was not out of place for security agencies, or the secret service to investigate security breaches. Recall that about two weeks ago, a member of the House of Representatives from Borno State, had sacked one of his aides, for posting comments that seemingly eulogised the Boko Haram leader, Abubakar Shekau.   Juliana Francis National Agency for the Prohibition of Trafficking in Persons (NAPTIP) has arrested two people for allegedly attempting to sell and buy a baby for N500,000.   The suspects are a federal civil servant based in Yenagoa, Bayelsa State, Mrs. Wilson Erurom and an employee of First Fertility Hospital,… April 21, 2021 In "Metro & Crime" …says no incitement to violence against Islam in homily The Christian Association of Nigeria (CAN), yesterday, warned that no harm must come upon the Bishop of the Catholic Diocese of Sokoto, Most Rev Matthew Hassan Kukah, over his Christmas Day homily that unsettled the central government and some Islamic groups… January 15, 2021 In "News" The Department of State Services' (DSS), has denied reports of alleged arrest of the Spiritual Director, Adoration Ministry Enugu,Nigeria (AMEN), Rev. Fr. Ejike Mbaka, by its personnel. There were reports of alleged arrest and detention of Fr. Mbaka, by security operatives, days after indications of no love lost relationship between… May 6, 2021 In "News"