 Canadian security software supplier Blackberry Ltd (BB.TO), beat Wall Street estimates for quarterly revenue on Thursday, lifted by a rebound in demand for its QNX operating software and cybersecurity products.
U.S.-listed shares of the company were up 1.3% at $12.84 in extended trading, reports Reuters.
Revenue fell to $174 million in the first quarter ended May 31 from $206 million a year earlier, but beat analysts’ average estimate of $171.25 million, according to Refinitiv-IBES data.
Demand for cybersecurity services have been on the rise as businesses increasingly migrate to cloud-based computing to support remote work during the COVID-19 pandemic.
A boom in electric-vehicle sales has also bolstered demand for BlackBerry’s QNX software, primarily used in cars.
Net loss in the quarter narrowed to $62 million, or 11 cents per share, from $636 million, or $1.14 cents per share, a year earlier.
The company was also one of the “meme stocks” that received major attention from investors after a social-media driven retail short-squeeze frenzy. BlackBerry’s shares are up over 90% so far this year.  Levi Strauss & Co on Wednesday forecast first-quarter results below analysts' estimates as the resurgence of COVID-19 shutters the denim maker's stores in major markets, sending its shares 9% lower in extended trading. The spike in coronavirus cases from late last year has led to lower traffic at stores… January 28, 2021 In "Business" Volatility in the overall economic and business climate has impacted negatively on the earnings of Eterna Oil Plc. Chris Ugwu writes   The oil and gas sector is one of the sectors receiving the hard knock from the country’s volatile business environment. Operating environment for this sector of the economy,… September 14, 2020 In "News" High operational cost has continued to weigh down CAP Plc’s earnings, CHRIS UGWU writes.     The disruptions in the economy brought by COVID-19 and the insecurity remain a major concern that has made free enterprise increasingly complicated.   The high quality of imported goods has also been listed… October 26, 2020 In "Business"