 Regina Otokpa, Abuja The Nigeria Centre for Disease Control (NCDC), was on Friday amongst the seven winners of the Data4COVID19 Africa Challenge, from a pool of 83 proposals received from 22 countries in the African region.
The Nigerian project was entitled “Understanding facilitators and barriers to compliance with non-pharmaceutical COVID-19 preventive measures in Nigeria.”
The Data4COVID19 Africa Challenge is hosted by I’Agence francaise de development (AFD), Expertise France, and The GovLab with the view to better understand and respond to the vast range of issues resulting from the COVID-19 pandemic and its consequences across Africa through innovative use of data.
Minster of State for Education, Mr Chukwuemeka Nwajiuba, who spoke at the inception meeting of the Data4COVID19 Challenge in Nigeria convened by the NCDC in collaboration with the College of Medicine, University of Lagos (CMUL) and other partners, noted that lack of accurate data fuels distrust.
While noting that Nigeria’s response to the pandemic has been scientific and evidence based, he stressed on the need to rely on accurate data for national guidance, adding that the project would inform risk communication and address skepticism around government response to the pandemic.
Director-General NCDC, Dr Chikwe Ihekweazu, maintained that one critical aspect of the response to public health emergencies was the need to provide accurate data and real time information to decision makers and the public.
According to him, the project would provide an opportunity to better understand how knowledge and perception could shape population behavior, policy and response to COVID-19 safety protocols  ...as Indian strain surfaces in Nigeria, diseases centre alerts NCDC Nigeria on Tuesday again recorded zero death from complications arising from Coronavirus Disease. The Nigeria Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) revealed this as part of the data released from the pandemic in Nigeria. According to the lead agency in the… May 12, 2021 In "News" ...as Africa's death toll tops 100,000 Nigeria on Friday recorded 10 deaths from COVID-19 raising the fatality toll in the past two days to 26. Friday’s figure raised the total fatalities in the country to 1,813. Nigeria also recorded 662 new infections on Friday, according to the country’s infectious disease… February 20, 2021 In "News" ...as Africa’s virus recoveries cross 1m mark Nigeria’s daily figure of positive COVID-19 samples recorded a major drop with 124 new cases confirmed in 12 states and the Federal Capital Territory (FCT). The Nigeria Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) confirmed the new cases in its update for September 3, 2020.… September 4, 2020 In "News"