The management of Federal Inland Revenue Service (FIRS) and other financial tax experts have decried Nigeria’s 6.3 per cent tax to the country’s Gross Domestic Product (GDP).  They described the country’s tax to GDP ratio as one of the lowest in Africa and why there is need to accelerate growth in tax revenue to become sustainable.  Those, who spoke at the webinar of the Joint Tax Board (JTB)/ Nigeria Employers Consultative Association (NECA) interactive session with stakeholders on the newly developed withholding tax software for ease of doing business inclusiveness in Nigeria, in Lagos yesterday, included Bismarck Rewane, Managing Director, Financial Derivatives Co. Ltd; Muhammed Nami, Executive Chairman, FIRS; Dr. Timothy Olawale, Director General, NECA; Mr. Ayo Subair, Executive Chairman, Lagos Inland Revenue Service and Mr. Olufemi Oguntade, Managing Partner O.M Associates.  Speaking at the event, Bismarck explained that it had become imperative for government to jerk up the country’s tax to GDP ratio for sustainable growth and development.  According to him, the four major components of the economy, government, households, corporate and investors are all struggling to get back to prepandemic level of the economy at present. He said: “Govt revenue inadequate to meet it’s objectives. 6.3 per cent tax to GDP. Ghana has 14., SA over 20 per cent.  “If we continue borrowing with revenue, it would be a major problem.taxes must be mutual, generation revenue, easy to administer, fair, accountability.  “The whole rigmarole of trying to pay, receipt, solution that can save time, address inefficient tax collection. All hands have to be one deck to revenue are well collected, spent.”  For Nami, the FIRS executive chairman, new withholding tax, remind tax practitioners that there is penalty for failure to remit or deduct withholding tax. He said FIRS would engage relevant stakeholders to get support, corporate to increase tax compliant.  Nami said: “The utiliseation of tax processes, called for collaboration initiatives that JTB could leverage on NIN to make sure that it is incorporated as a tool for tax activities.” He also urged JTB to use data to increase revenue, adding that “benefit of the system to principal companies to assist them as collecting agents, revenue.  “Help ensure they do not fall victim. Brining informal tax players into tax net  would relieve the burden on principal tax players alone,” he added. Aisha, Secretary, JTB, said the need to expand tax net, obey law would assists in expanding tax net and generating more revenue to finance government.  She said: “Era of Technologically driven system. Software to ease tax of tax administration, etc. It would provide adequate revenue to drive it’s activities.  “The battle to bring in the informal section into the tax net has been on. It would bring. Withholding tax. “We implore fast consumer moving goods to use the software.” For Subair of the LIRS, featuring capability for ease of doing business is coming at a time to when to engage citizens to comply with tax filings has proven daunting, especially with this COVID period, which made things very differently.  A bill seeking to change the face of taxation in the country is before the House of Representatives. PHILIP NYAM examines the collaboration between lawmakers and a nongovernmental organisation on the proposed legislation A bill seeking to establish the National Inspector- General for Tax Crimes Commission to promote economic efficiency… April 22, 2021 In "Politics" The Federal Government is losing huge sums in revenue on granting pioneer tax relief to companies, which is a tax exemption policy of the government to companies to stimulate growth and create employment. Based on this, the Federal Inland Revenue Service (FIRS) yesterday said the scheme has been abused over… August 22, 2020 In "News" Financial institutions in the country now have new online portal introduced by the Federal Inland Revenue Service (FIRS). Designated as Automatic Exchange of Information- Common Reporting Standard (AEOI-CRS) system, the new online portal is part of on-going tax reform to align Nigeria with global standard.   Executive Chairman, FIRS, Mr.… September 7, 2020 In "News"