 A  mystery bidder has paid $28m (£20m) for a seat on Amazon founder Jeff Bezos’s first crewed spaceflight by the billionaire’s Blue Origin company.
This winning bid was made at Saturday’s auction, with Blue Origin tweeting that the winner’s identity would be revealed in the coming weeks.
The bidding process attracted interest from more than 140 countries, reports the BBC.
The other two crew members of the July 20 flight are Bezos’ brother Mark and an unnamed space tourist.
After a nearly month-long bidding process the top bid had stood at just under $5m – but once Saturday’s online auction got under way that figure rose more than five times.
“The winning bid amount will be donated to Blue Origin’s foundation, @ClubforFuture,” Blue Origin tweeted.
Bezos has a net worth of $186.2bn (£131.5bn), according to Forbes magazine. This makes him one of the world’s richest people.
“On July 20th, I will take that journey with my brother,” he wrote in a post on Instagram earlier this week. “The greatest adventure, with my best friend.”
Bezos’ brother Mark described the planned flight on Blue Origin’s launch vehicle New Shepard as a “remarkable opportunity”.
According to Blue Origin’s website the company plans to launch its passengers more than 100km (62 miles) above the Earth’s surface, allowing them to experience microgravity. The six-berth capsule will return to Earth using parachutes.
The trip is expected to last about 10 minutes.
The New Shepard booster can land vertically on the ground after returning from space. It is named after Alan Shepard, the second person and first US citizen to fly into space.
The first crewed flight comes just weeks after Bezos plans to step down as CEO of Amazon.
Instead he will serve as executive chairman of the e-commerce giant he founded 30 years ago in his garage, allowing him “time and energy” to focus on other ventures.
Meanwhile, a rival space pioneer could steal a march on Bezos. It is thought Richard Branson might join a test flight of his Virgin VSS Unity spaceplane on July 4.  Elon Musk, the outspoken entrepreneur behind Tesla Inc. and SpaceX, is now the richest person on the planet, Bloomberg reported yesterday. A 4.8 per cent rally in the electric carmaker’s share price Thursday boosted Musk past Amazon.com Inc. founder Jeff Bezos on the Bloomberg Billionaires Index, a ranking of the… January 8, 2021 In "Business" Nigeria Customs Service (NCS) yesterday said that only persons with valid Tax Identification Number (TIN) would have access to log in and bid for auctioned items of their choice. Its Public Relations Officers, Joseph Attah, a deputy comptroller, said in a statement that the service had re-engineered its e-auction process.… August 11, 2020 In "News" BONUS A signature bonus in respect of any licence or lease awarded shall be based on a transparent method for evaluating the acreage   The Federal Government has heightened plans to end the power of substantive oil minister on discretionary allocation of oil blocs. The government has, instead, settled for… October 13, 2020 In "Business"