…CFO, Ugo Anyanwu also sentenced An Ikeja Division of the Lagos State High Court, yesterday, convicted the former Managing Director of the defunct Bank PHB Plc, Mr. Francis Atuche, and the bank’s former Chief Financial Officer (CFO), Mr. Ugo Anyanwu. The judge, who found the bankers guilty of stealing and conspiracy to steal, however, discharged and acquitted Atuche’s wife, Elizabeth. The former bank chief, his wife, and Anyanwu were accused of stealing N25.7 billion belonging to the bank. They were arraigned in 2011 before Justice Lateefat Okunnu of the Ikeja Division of the La-gos State High Court. Atuche is also standing trial over N125 billion alleged fraud before the Lagos Division of the Federal High Court. He was arraigned in 2014, alongside Charles Ojo, a former Managing Director of Spring Bank Plc, on an amended 45-count before Justice Saliu Seidu, before the judge was transferred out of the Lagos division. The case was subsequently transferred to Justice Ayokunle Faji and the defendants were re-arraigned in 2017.  Akeem Nafiu A former Managing Director of the defunct Finbank Plc, Okey Nwosu, was on Tuesday sentenced to three years imprisonment by Justice Lateefat Okunnu of a Lagos High Court in Igbosere for N18 billion theft. The judge handed down the verdict after she found the former bank boss… January 5, 2021 In "News" A former Managing Director of the defunct Finbank Plc, Okey Nwosu, was yesterday sentenced to three years imprisonment by Justice Lateefat Okunnu of a Lagos High Court in Igbosere for N18 billion theft. The judge handed down the verdict after she found the former bank boss and three other Directors… January 6, 2021 In "News" Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) has rearraigned the CEO of First Nation Airways Limited, Kayode Odukoya, before an Ikeja Special Offences Court, Lagos, for allegedly forging a memorandum of loss of Lagos State Certificate of Occupancy and N1.7 billion fraud.   Odukoya was arraigned alongside his companies, First Nation… December 1, 2020 In "Metro & Crime"