England’s Euro 2020 last-16 tie with Germany on Tuesday is an opportunity for his team to “make some history”, says manager Gareth Southgate. Southgate hopes to guide England into the quarter-finals after reaching the last four of the World Cup in 2018. He is keen for his players to write a new chapter into the England-Germany rivalry, with several of them too young to remember some previous key meetings. “The game is probably worthy of more than the second round stage,” he said.
“But then so is Belgium against Portugal and one or two others. “It’s a great opportunity for this team to make some history and give people memories of England-Germany fixtures for the future, that are a little different to some of the ones they’ve been flooded with over the last few days which mean absolutely nothing to them because they weren’t born.” England are aiming to secure a first major tournament knockout-stage victory over Germany since 1966 when they take on Joachim Low’s side in front of an expected 40,000-strong Wembley crowd. Germany have won all four knockout matches between the teams since losing the 1966 World Cup final at Wembley.  England have not been spectacular but solid; at the heart of their progression to the round of 16 is Raheem Sterling, and coach Gareth Southgate will count on the Man City winger to step to the plate once again when they face G ermany in their first knockout stage tie… June 26, 2021 In "Back Page Columnist" • Southgate to name replacement after Romania game • England players to be asked about taking a knee Trent Alexander-Arnold has been ruled out of Euro 2020 after sustaining a thigh injury in the closing stages of England’s 1-0 win over Austria on Wednesday. The Liverpool right-back is devastated by a setback… June 4, 2021 In "Sports" ...as Croatia ends Scotland's dreams Raheem Sterling's second goal of Euro 2020 saw England beat the Czech Republic to win Group D and set up a last-16 tie against France, Germany, Portugal or Hungary at Wembley. In a performance that developed into a slog after a bright start, Sterling converted… June 23, 2021 In "Sports"