 Hundreds of passengers on the Abuja/Kaduna train are currently stranded in Dutse, Kaduna, as the train developed faults a few minutes into the journey.
Five minutes after the train departed the Rigasa Station in Kaduna, it developed a mechanical fault.
Midat Joseph, an Assistant National Secretary of the Nigeria Union of Journalists (NUJ), who was one of the passengers, said the train developed fault around 7:am.
“I left my house as early as 5:am to join the 6:40am train but unfortunately I have been trapped here in this forest. This is not the first time I will be experiencing this mess,” he said.
Another passenger said he had a similar experience on Saturday, saying they spent six hours to get to Abuja.
“This is unfortunate. On Saturday, we spent five hours from Abuja to Kaduna. We left Abuja at 6:pm but we did not get to Kaduna until 11:pm,” he said.
An engineer of the NRC, who addressed the passengers, told them that it would take them two hours to fix the train.
“We are very sorry, the locomotive is faulty. We have contacted the Idu Train Station for another locomotive. It would take them two hours to be here,” he said.  The Abuja-Kaduna train has broken down again as it returned from Kaduna on Sunday. The train was on the morning schedule from Rigasa, Kaduna to Idu, Abuja when it broke down around Akere, a rural area within the route. It was learnt that the Nigeria Railways Corporation (NRC) engineers… January 4, 2021 In "Metro & Crime" In spite of the lifting of the ban on interstate travels and relaxation of restrictions on vehicular movement, motorists are still experiencing pains on a major highway in Abuja. CHUKWU DAVID reports     Workers and businessmen operating in the Federal Capital Territory (FCT), but resident in the adjoining satellite… July 21, 2020 In "Inside Abuja" Minister of Transportation, Rotimi Amaechi, has disclosed that the Federal Government was under intense pressure to provide more coaches to the Abuja-Kaduna rail line, saying that the number of coaches currently available was grossly insufficient.   Amaechi made the disclosure while fielding questions from journalists in Lagos, during the monthly… December 21, 2020 In "News"