…places 40 centres on watch list  The Joint Admission and Matriculation Board (JAMB), has directed candidates in the 24 Computer Based Test (CBT) centres delisted for poor performance, to proceed with reprinting examination notification slips.  This came as the Board announced that over 40 other CBT centres were presently on its watch list.  According to the Head, Protocol and Public Affairs of JAMB, Dr. Fabian Benjamin on Monday in Abuja, the candidates who have been assigned new schedule date, time and centres, are required to log on to the JAMB portal to reprint their examination slips  He said: “Candidates who were scheduled to take examinations in delisted centres can proceed to print their examination notification slips from Sunday, 20, 2021 for their new schedule date and time.  “This applies only to centres delisted. You will recall that 24 centres were delisted for performing below the tolerable limit of the Board while over 40 others were put on the watch list.”   …places 40 centres on watch list The Joint Admission and Matriculation Board (JAMB), has directed candidates in the 24 Computer Based Test (CBT) centres delisted for poor performance, to proceed with reprinting examination notification slips. This came as the Board announced that over 40 other CBT centres were presently on… June 21, 2021 In "Education" ...advises affected candidates to await directives Regina Otokpa, Abuja Following the failure of some Computer Based Test (CBT) centres to deliver on their mandate to ensure seamless delivery of services during the 2021 Unified Tertiary Matriculation Examination (UTME), which commenced nationwide on Saturday, the Joint Admission and Matriculations Board (JAMB),… June 20, 2021 In "Education" Following the failure of some Computer Based Test (CBT) centres to deliver on their mandate to ensure seamless delivery of services during the 2021 Unified Tertiary Matriculation Examination (UTME), which commenced nationwide on Saturday, the Joint Admission and Matriculations Board (JAMB), has delisted 24 CBT centres in 10 states.  … June 21, 2021 In "News"