The Newspaper Proprietors’ Association of Nigeria (NPAN) has expressed surprise at its exclusion from a public hearing on the Nigerian Press Council (NPC) Amendment Bill scheduled for today. NPAN, in a statement issued yesterday by its President, Kabiru A. Yusuf and titled: “Why Exclude the Press from the Public Hearing on the Nigerian Press Council Bill?”, said as a stakeholder in the Nigerian media space, the NPAN should be a participant in the hearing of the bill. The statement read: “Going by available information, the hearing had initially been scheduled for yesterday, Wednesday, June 16, 2021, along with four other media related bills. “As a stakeholder in the Nigerian media space, we don’t understand why print media owners have not been invited to participate in the hearing. “This is contrary to earlier practice when the NPAN was invited to a public hearing on the same bill in the last Senate. This time around, we find it strange that we would get to know of this development by sheer happenstance.” NPAN, therefore, called on the leadership of the National Assembly, and the House of Representatives in particular, to redress the anomaly.  The Newspaper Proprietors' Association of Nigeria (NPAN) has expressed surprise at its exclusion from a public hearing on the Nigerian Press Council (NPC) Amendment Bill scheduled for today. NPAN, in a statement issued yesterday by its President, Kabiru A. Yusuf and titled: “Why Exclude the Press from the Public Hearing… June 16, 2021 In "News" The Newspaper Proprietors' Association of Nigeria (NPAN) and the Nigerian Guild of Editors (NGE) have urged the Federal Government to tread with caution and immediately reconsider the suspension of the operation of Twitter in Nigeria by seeking other legitimate means of resolving its dispute with the company.   In separate… June 6, 2021 In "News" Former governor of Abia State and Chief Whip in the Senate, Dr. Orji Kalu, has congratulated a former governor of Ogun State, Chief Segun Osoba, on his appointment as Chairman, Governing Council of the Nigerian Institute of Journalism (NIJ). Kalu described the appointment as well deserved and timely, stressing that… August 27, 2020 In "News"