*Heavy police presence in Lagos The Nigeria Police Force thwarted a protest on June 12 in the Gudu area of the Federal Capital Territory, Abuja when they stormed the area and began firing teargas canisters to disperse the crowd that had gathered.
The protest started around 8:30 a.m. and was going well, with protesters, mostly young people, expressing their dissatisfaction with the state of the country.
When security operatives began shooting teargas canisters, the protesters, who were chanting “Buhari must go,” “Say no to injustice,” and other solidarity phrases, took to their heels and scurried for safety.
Meanwhile, there is heavy presence of police at the Gani Fawehinmi Park located at the popular Ojota area of Lagos ostensibly to prevent any June 12 protests being carried out.
The Park was scene of mass protests almost a decade ago when Occupy Nigeria organisers held rallies there to demand President Goodluck Jonathan reverse his fuel price hike of January 1, 2012.
However,  New Telegraph learnt that protesters have taken to the streets of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital, in a show of defiance.  Amnesty International (AI) has condemned the attacks on peaceful protesters across the country. As Nigeria celebrated Democracy Day on Saturday, protesters stormed major cities nationwide to demand better governance and improved living condition for citizens. But some of those protesting have been attacked by both the police and opposing… June 12, 2021 In "News" Some #ENDSARS protesters have been teargassed and arrested at the gates of National Assembly by the Nigeria Police on Friday morning. The demonstrators had gathered in front of the complex to paint #EndSARS grafiti on the floor. But the peaceful protest was violently disrupted when the police officers at… November 6, 2020 In "Top Stories" ...hold Jumat prayer, candlelight vigil, share food, drinks Activities were grounded in parts of Benin, the Edo State capital as two persons were feared dead during a violent clash between pro and anti- End$ARS protesters in the state. Similarly, one of the protesters of #EndSARS in Akure, the Ondo State… October 17, 2020 In "News"