It is going to be the top of the table clash when Kano Pillars welcome Akwa United to Kaduna in one of the Nigeria Professional Football League MatchDay 27 scheduled for various centres on Sunday.  Akwa United, currently top of the table with 49 points, a point ahead of their host, who is in second position will be hoping to consolidate on their position. Speaking ahead of the game, assistant captain of Akwa United, Ubong Friday, said he and his teammates won’t leave anything to chance on Sunday.  “We all resolve to take it one game at a time and that is what we have been doing,” he said. “At the moment our concentration and energy is on the game against Kano Pillars on Sunday because it’s a match of great importance to us that is why we  won’t leave any stone unturned. “We are committed and determined now more than ever to ensure we give our very best in every match.  Pillars are a good team, they have not lost at home so far this season but we are here in Kaduna for a serious business because they are beatable. “We have defeated Kano Pillars in Uyo this season and doing the double over them is very possible. The last time we beat Pillars home and away was in 2017 and I believe we can do it again this season.” Kano Pillars will have the Super Eagles captain, Ahmed Musa, returning to the starting line after returning from national team assignment. Other NPFL games for this weekend will see Nasarawa United playing at home against Plateau United with Enyimba keeping a date with Katsina United in Katsina while Adamawa United play host to Rivers United.  Heartland will be playing at home against Jigawa Golden Stars, Wikki Tourists and Kwara United will also be home against FC IfeanyiUbah and MFM respectively. Sunshine Stars won their first game since January 30 during the week, but will have to hope on luck to get anything away from Enugu as the guest of Rangers.  Lobi Stars and Dakkada would be away to Abia Warriors and Warri Wolves respectively   Rangers’ combative and enterprising midfield maestro, Godspower Aniefiok, who joined the club from Akwa United last season, has promised fans of the club of a good outing against Kano Pillars this weekend, in a match scheduled to take place at the Ahmadu Bello Stadium. Aniefiok, who has two goals to… March 6, 2021 In "Sports" Kwara United are the most inform team of the Nigeria Professional Football League as they have only lost one game after 10 matches of the season. The signing of former Super Eagles goalkeeper, Dele Aiyenugba, has improved the lot of a team which battled relegation last season and they will… February 20, 2021 In "Sports" Super Eagles Captain, Ahmed Musa, will on Sunday return to Jos, where he started his career with JUTH FC of Jos as Kano Pillars take on Plateau United in one of the Nigeria Professional Football League MatchDay 24 games across various centres in the country.   The former Leicester City… May 30, 2021 In "Sports"