In order to promote culture and tourism in Bayelsa state, the state governor Douye Diri, has directed the commissioner for culture and tourism to capture the Great Lake Efi fishing festival in the state’s cultural calendar. Speaking on Friday during the Great Lake Efi fishing festival in Sabagreia community in Kolokuma/ Opokuma Local Government Area of the state, the Governor also directed that other cultural festivals be added to the cultural calendar of the state. Assuring that his administration will promote the culture and history of people of the state through tourism, the governor described the festival as an event with great potential to scale- up the economy of the state. He commended the people of Sabagreia, Seibokorugha and Okoloba communities for sustaining the age-long tradition. His Royal Highness, Dr Bokumo Orukari Kala X, the Amananaowei of Sabagreia noted that the fishing festival was a minute aspect of the great Lake Efi fishing festival adding that “I see beyond the fishing festival as lots of things will come to this community and to this local government.”  The Governor of Plateau State and Chairman Northern Governors Forum, Barr. Simon Bako Lalong, has called for the deployment of arts and culture for the creation of wealth, saying that Nigeria has diverse arts and cultural heritage that could yield wealth for the people if properly harnessed and promote.  … November 23, 2020 In "Arts & Entertainments" The sleeping community of Aradhe in Isoko North Local Government Area of Delta State ended 2020 on a celebratory note as the community came alive and agog during it annual cultural festival, Aradhe Cultural Festival. The organisers of the event said the festival was to foster unity among the sons… January 23, 2021 In "Travel & Tourism" ANDREW IRO OKUNGBOWA who attended the recently held National Festival of Arts and Culture in Jos, Plateau State, writes on the one – week long cultural – tourism fiesta, describing it is a glamourous and exciting platform for exposing and promoting the rich and diverse cultural heritage of Nigeria Background… December 5, 2020 In "Travel & Tourism"