 …seeks safe rescue, return of students, staff Kayode Olanrewaju Old students of the 104 Unity Schools in the country, under the aegis of Unity Schools Old Students Association (USOSA) have condemned the abduction of students and teachers of the Federal Government College, Birnin Yauri, Kebbi State by armed bandits in the morning of Thursday.
The association in a statement entitled: “USOSA condemns the abduction of students and staff of Federal Government College, Birnin Yauri: Calls for quick rescue of the abductees,” signed by its President-General, Lawrence Anirejuoritse Wilbert, and made available New Telegraph, called on the Federal Government to declare a nationwide state of emergency on security.
He, however, said that the association was particularly piqued by the fact that the bandits were able to carry out their dastardly acts in broad daylight amidst clearly insufficient resistance from security agents.
Specifically flaying what he described as persistent attacks on schools, and the latest invasion of Federal Government College, Birnin Yauri in which a police officer was killed, while some students and staff sustained gunshot injuries, USOSA said that the government should account for every student, while this tragedy and madness must stop.
USOSA noted: “It is disheartening that the incident occurred at a time when the media is awash with fresh assurances by the Federal Government and the security agencies that everything is being done to rid the country of bandits and insurgents and safeguard lives and property of all Nigerians.
“USOSA views this latest onslaught on innocent school children as utterly insane and wicked. We deplore the reprehensible attempt to truncate the academic pursuits of Nigerian children and the country’s peace and security. The association, therefore, insists that the government should immediately secure the safe return of all the abductees, and apprehend the perpetrators and master-minds of the attack.
“We call for declaration of a nationwide state of emergency on security, albeit with retention of all democratic structures and offices. While we are mindful that the Federal Government has over the years taken other steps to tackle the security challenges and even expended colossal sums of money (including billions of naira and dollars) on procurement of arms and ammunition to counter armed criminality in the country, we believe that the progressive deterioration of the security situation nationwide is indicative that more cogent actions need to be taken if the unholy marauders must be crushed once and for all.”
While, calling on President Muhammadu Buhari and other leaders of the nation to awaken to their responsibility of securing the country and its people, he reiterated the need for the military and other security agencies to rejig strategies and security architecture that are aimed at effectively routing the bandits, insurgents and kidnappers and ending the gruesome reign of terror, especially as being unleashed on schools.
To do this, Wilbert said that security intelligence, surveillance and other proactive measures should be reinforced and broadened to beef-up security in the land, even as he insisted that the procurement and deployment of drones, prompt installation of functional close-circuit television (CCTV) cameras in all schools, at strategic street corners, churches, mosques, markets and other public places should be put in place.   Northern governors, yesterday, said they were distressed and saddened by the spate of attacks and abductions, particularly yesterday’s abduction of some students, staff and families at the Government Science School, Kagara, in Niger State by suspected bandits. Chairman of Northern States Governors’ Forum and Governor of Plateau State, Simon Lalong,… February 18, 2021 In "News" Gunmen yesterday invaded the Federal Government College, Birnin-Yauri, Kebbi State and abducted several students and teachers. The Press Secretary to the Emir of Yauri, Mallam Ibrahim, confirmed the abduction to journalists on the phone. The Press Secretary said the kidnappers invaded the school and kidnapped both male and female students.… June 18, 2021 In "Metro & Crime" Chairman of the House of Representatives Committee on Healthcare Services, Hon. Tanko Sununu on Thursday lamented the killings in his constituency and the abduction of staff and students of Federal Government College, Birnin Yauri in Kebbi State and called for the intervention of the Federal Government. Sununu, who represents Yawuri/Sanga/Ngaski… June 17, 2021 In "Metro & Crime"