Policemen attached to the Delta State Police Rapid Response Squad (RRS) have arrested a 38-year-old man, Mike Omoruyi, of Odo Street in Obiaruku for being in possession of arms.  The squad swooped on the suspect while on patrol on Obiaruku-Umuebu Road. When he was searched, one Lar rifle without magazine, one fabricated AK47 rifle, one Air rifle, one Pump Action Gun, one English double-barrelled gun and two toy guns, were recovered from him.  The state Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO), Bright Edafe, said in Asaba yesterday that the suspect was a Nollywood film producer who hired the guns for film production.  He said: “Further investigation led to the arrest of the suspected gunrunner, Chief Otuya Josiah, a 57-year-old man of Umuebu community. “Otuya who confessed to the crime, said he has been renting the same to the first suspect (Mike) at the cost of N50,000 for film production.”  The PPRO, who said investigation was on, disclosed that men of the command acted on credible intelligence that at  Special Forces of the Nigeria Police have arrested 84 suspected kidnappers, bandits, armed robbers, gunrunners and other criminals. The feat was achieved by operatives of the Intelligence Response Team (IRT) and the Special Tactical Squad (STS) of the Police. The Force Public Relations Officer (FPRO), Frank Mba, disclosed this in… June 3, 2021 In "News" Operatives of the Special Anti-Robbery Squad (SARS), Anambra State Police Command, have recovered the remains of a victim, who was abducted and later murdered.   The police have also arrested three people in connection with the crime. The suspects are Obasi Faith Ezinne (23) of Mbaitolu Imo State, Ntomchukwu Anabaraonye… September 8, 2020 In "Metro & Crime" Two journalists, Stanley Akpunonu and Ngozi Egenuka, working with The Guardian Newspapers in Lagos State, recently received their baptism of fire in the hands of traffic robbers, who seemed to have taken over the entire Lagos State metropolis. Both victims were attacked at Cele Bus Stop, along the Oshodi-Apapa Expressway… May 28, 2021 In "Metro & Crime"