 Japan could allow up to 10 000 fans at sports events ahead of the Olympics, media reported Wednesday, as organisers weigh how many domestic fans can attend the Games.
The measure, intended to come into force after a coronavirus state of emergency ends on June 20, will be discussed by the government’s virus taskforce on Wednesday, the Nikkei business daily and Kyodo news agency said.
The plan would limit spectators to 50 percent of a venue’s capacity or 10,000 people, whichever is lower.
It could set the boundaries for a decision by Olympic organisers on how many domestic fans, if any, can attend Games events. Overseas spectators have already been banned.
The Olympic decision is expected only after the virus emergency in Tokyo ends on June 20 and the government clarifies what measures will replace it.
Recent reports have said the government could introduce “quasi-emergency” measures including restrictions on the sale of alcohol or limited opening hours for bars and restaurants.
Experts and officials have expressed concerns that huge crowds attending the Games could accelerate virus infections after the emergency ends.
Japan has so far seen a comparatively small virus outbreak, with slightly more than 14 000 deaths despite avoiding harsh lockdowns.
But its vaccination programme has moved slower than many other developed nations, with just over five percent of the population fully inoculated so far.
Under the current state of emergency, spectators are capped at 5 000 people or 50 percent of a venue’s capacity, whichever is smaller.
The decision on Olympic fans is expected by the end of the month.
*Courtesy: AFP  International Olympic Committee vice-president John Coates arrived in Japan on Tuesday, as organisers ramp up final preparations with just over five weeks until the pandemic-postponed Games open. Ahead of his arrival, several dozen people protested against the Games in Tokyo, though recent opinion polls suggest public opposition may be… June 15, 2021 In "Sports" ...as Japan considers asking Olympic fans for negative COVID tests, vaccinations The U.S. men's 3x3 basketball team have failed to qualify for the Tokyo Olympics after the 2019 world champions lost to the Netherlands in the quarter-finals of the qualifying tournament on Sunday. While the U.S. women sealed a spot… May 31, 2021 In "Sports" ...as 10,000 volunteers quit The President of the Tokyo 2020 Organising Committee ruled out a cancellation or further postponement of the Olympics as doubts swirled among city governments and medical professionals whether the event can be held safely amid the pandemic. Public opinion polls in Japan have consistently shown that… June 3, 2021 In "Sports"