 “It was the coolest thing ever,” said YouTuber Logan Paul after going the distance with unbeaten former five-weight world champion Floyd Mayweather.
Their eight-round exhibition bout at Miami’s Hard Rock stadium did not have a winner – there were no judges at ringside and the fight did not count for either fighter’s record.
Mayweather dominated the pay-per-view event, without landing a knockout blow, reports the BBC.
“Just going the distance was a win for him,” Mayweather said.
“When the money comes, we will see who the winner is,” he added.
The 44-year-old said he expects to make $50m (£35m) from the event and even referred to the exhibition as “legalised bank robbery”.
Many in boxing had criticised the spectacle before a punch had been thrown. But there was certainly an appetite for it – not only from curious fight fans, but from some of Paul’s 23 million YouTube followers.
Mexican boxing superstar Saul ‘Canelo’ Alvarez appeared to give his thoughts to his own Twitter followers during the fight.
There was a suggestion the demand might have overwhelmed the servers of Showtime, the service that streamed the fight, with some users complaining they were unable to view it.
What they would have seen was an experienced campaigner in Mayweather – unbeaten in 50 fights and reckoned to be one of the greatest boxers of all time – hand out a lesson to a man 18 years his junior, 16kg heavier and six inches taller.
There was plenty of grappling in the middle rounds, but Paul showed his ability to take punishment – and prevent Mayweather ending the contest early.
Paul’s only other fights were against another YouTube personality, KSI.
But Mayweather later admitted that he had underestimated Paul, calling him “a great young fighter, strong, tough” and saying “he’s better than I thought he was”.
“He’s a tough competitor, I’m surprised by him tonight,” he said.
“You got to realise I’m not 21 any more but it’s good to move around with these young guys, test my skills just to have some fun,” Mayweather added, calling the event “a fun night”.
Paul was delighted to have gone the distance – even performing a post-fight hand stand in the ring: “The fact I am in here with one of the greatest boxers of all time proves that the odds can be beaten,” he said.
“It’s one of the greatest moments in my life.”
Although he added: “I’m going to go home thinking if he let me survive.”  Floyd Mayweather's exhibition fight against Logan Paul is back on, with the fight now scheduled to take place on June 6 at Hard Rock Stadium in Miami. Mayweather, a five-weight world champion with a 50-0 record, was originally due to take on YouTuber-turned-boxer Paul in February, reports Sky Sports.… April 28, 2021 In "Sports" Floyd Mayweather will return to the boxing ring in February for an exhibition bout against YouTube personality Logan Paul, the undefeated former world champion announced on Instagram on Sunday. Mayweather, 43 and with an unblemished record of 50-0, last fought professionally in August 2017 when he won by TKO… December 7, 2020 In "Sports" Oscar De La Hoya on Friday said he is coming out of retirement to fight on July 3 against a yet-to-be-named opponent in what will be the 48-year-old's first bout since 2008. De La Hoya wants to take on Floyd Mayweather, Yahoo Sports reported, which is no surprise… March 28, 2021 In "Sports"