 Neighbours and Nigeria’s football rivals, the Indomitable Lions of Cameroon have already assembled in Vienna, Austria ahead of the two friendly matches with Nigeria this Friday and next week.
According to Sports Village Square coach, Antonio Conceicao and his staff have shortlisted 28 players for the games.
They are staying at Hilton Danube Waterfront Hotel.
According to Cameroon Tribune, the coach is using the two matches to rebuild the offensive of the squad ahead of the World Cup qualifiers in September.
In their last three matches, the Indomitable Lions scored just a goal which came in their 3-1 loss to Cape Verde which incidentally are one of Nigeria’s World Cup opponents.
Eric Maxim Choupo-Motting is expected to lead the attack for Cameroon. He could be supported by players like Karl Toko Ekambi, Christian Bassogog and Stephen Bahoken.
Among the new invitees to the squad are the duo of James Lea Siliki, a former France U-19 player and Yvan Neyou, the promising midfielder of Saint-Etienne Greens.  Super Eagles Manager Gernot Rohr has said the friendly match against the Indomitable Lions of Cameroon, is not about winning but encouraging further team cohesion. The three-time African champion is scheduled to play Cameroon in a doubleheader international friendly matches slated for June in Austria. While speaking to CAF media… May 29, 2021 In "Sports" ...as Rohr names 31 players for tie The Nigeria Football Federation has confirmed an international friendly match between the Super Eagles and the Indomitable Lions of Cameroon for Austria on June 4. With World Cup qualifiers put off by FIFA till September, Nigeria and Cameroon will now utilise the June… May 15, 2021 In "Sports" The Nigeria Football Federation has secured another top friendly game for the Super Eagles after announcing CONCACAF Gold Cup holders, Mexico, as the country’s opponent come Saturday, July 3, at the famous Los Angeles Memorial Coliseum in the State of California, United States of America. The federation recently announced a… May 20, 2021 In "Sports"