…says parties not submitting election contributions, expenses reports The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) has accused political parties of undermining the nation’s electoral process. INEC Chairman, Prof. Mahmood Yakubu, who spoke at a quarterly consultative meeting with leaders of political parties, also said the parties are not complying with the provisions of the law that requires them to submit their election expenses to the commission. Prof. Yakubu told the party leaders that their party primaries are less than credible, noting that controversies still trail the primaries. He reminded them of the recent letters INEC wrote to them on the imperative of complying with the provisions of the law as well as the commission’s regulations governing the conduct of party primaries and nomination of candidates. He said: “The Commission is not happy that candidates for elections are now being determined through litigation long after elections have been concluded and winners declared by INEC. “The problem lies squarely with the conduct of party primaries and nomination of candidates by some political parties.” He urged the parties to hold themselves to the same high standard of free, fair, and credible elections that they hold INEC in all elections. “You must ensure strict compliance with your party constitutions, the law and the commission’s regulations and guidelines on party primaries in particular and the management of party affairs in general. “After all, Nigerians only exercise their democratic right to elect leaders from the candidates presented by political parties. “Electing good leaders begins with the quality of primaries conducted by political parties. We will do our part to ensure that our elections continue to improve,” Prof. Yakubu assured. The INEC Chairman said contrary to sections 92 (3) and 93(4) of the Electoral Act 2010 (as amended) which require political parties to submit to the commission their election expenses reports within six months and election contribution report within three months after the declarations of result of an election, only seven out of 14 political parties have responded in the case of Edo State and eight out of 17 for Ondo State. Prof. Yakubu disclosed that all the 18 political parties have expressed interest to participate in the November 6 Anambra governorship election while 14 parties have nominated candidates for the February 2022 FCT Area Council elections. Chairman of Interparty Advisory Council (IPAC), Dr. Leonard Nzenwa, decried the attacks on INEC facilities, which he regretted, might “diminish the capacity of the electoral management body to conduct elections in the country.”   The August 10 Appeal Court judgement invalidating the deregistration of 23 political parties by the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) has put the Commission in dilemma. ONYEKACHI EZE examines the legal implications in the Edo and Ondo governorship elections     It is trite in law that when… August 30, 2020 In "Politics" T he Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) has advised political parties fielding candidates in Edo and Ondo governorship elections to adhere to constitutional provisions in order to avoid the unnecessary litigations.     The commission, at a second virtual Interagency Consultative Committee Election Security (ICCES) meeting, decried the legal crises… June 18, 2020 In "News" The decision of the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) not to declare results of Edo and Ondo governorship elections if disrupted should be supported by lovers of democracy and peaceful conduct of elections, writes ONYEKACHI EZE     T he Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), recently, read the riot act… June 21, 2020 In "Politics"