Mr. Aderemi Adejumo, the Chief Executive Officer of Cloudflex Computing Services Limited, in this interview with SAMSON AKINTARO, speaks on the need for policies and regulations on local hosting of data to stimulate economic growth, among others   With low level local hosting of data in Nigeria, what motivated you to start Cloudflex  ? I started Cloudflex in 2012 and the vision there was the fact that I felt that the world was moving from a CAPEX to OPEX, that the word had to come to a point that people will not want to be buying machines and we looked at that in 2012, which was long before COVID that has now changed the world. So, we decided to build a cloud platform in Nigeria.  And what I’ve seen since then is the fact that in every country you have, there’s a sort of link between international cloud companies and the local cloud companies.  So, if you’re going to look at the local cloud companies, especially where that country does not have an international cloud company that has a local infrastructure, one of the key things that people have realised across the world, not just in Nigeria, is that your personal data must reside in your own country, from legal aspect and everything, because if you put something in another man’s country, you’re subject to his law.  You put it in your country, you’re subject to your laws and I’m talking about it simply. But using the terms, they talk about the data localisation, the data sovereignty and things like that.  And basically what you’re talking about is that in the event there’s a dispute, in the event that there’s an issue, the regulators have a right and control over the data, and as to what to do with the data. But because of the gap in terms of the duty of our regulators, majority of our data is outside our shore.  And so, that’s a grave danger for us, because it means that all our data is not controlled by our country, which is quite important, and we felt that it was important to have a local cloud platform. Again, there is what you call localisation, and when I use the word localisation, I’m saying, the culture, the way we work is very different from the way Kenyans work.  Kenyans work is very different from South Africa, and most definitely very different from the way people in Europe work. So, if you want to set up a company to cater for the Nigerian market, who is better to do it than somebody that is aligned with the Nigerian business practice so that you understand how we are.  And when I say that, I mean we have our own characteristics. You know there’s an issue of trust, we are a cash-based society. There’s far more trust in Europe and I don’t m e a n that as a critic i s m , I’m just saying t h e fact.  The second thing, look at the culture, if you go to Spain, if you go to Italy, between two and five, they sleep, they have siesta and they come back to work and they work till eight to nine. We don’t do that in Nigeria. So, you’ve got to tailor your business to the practices and to the nature of the people.  Also, what the international companies do is because they’re spread across the world and they’re catering for the world, they don’t have physical people, they use emails, they use call centres, they use automation.  Now, because we are not so developed, the Nigerian business wants to try it out, wants to understand what is he buying, how is he going to use it, how is it best for him within this environment. So, because of all that they want to talk to a human being. We provide that, which they don’t provide.  So what happens now, and what people don’t tell you is that they go blindly and buy services abroad, they start debiting them long before they understand that it was a mistake. So many companies have incurred thousands of dollars of services that they didn’t use, they didn’t understand, and they didn’t want, but nobody’s going to reverse it for them you have to pay.  So, that’s one of the ways people are losing money. But with us, we will advise and say no, that’s not what you need. This is what you need. And we won’t start billing until you put it at this stage, or we’ve got to this point.  So, you’re saving a lot of money. The other key thing is that if you look at the exchange rate, it has gone up, and we’ve had the devaluation of naira by nearly 50 per cent In the last six to seven months. So you imagine that somebody who’s buying services in dollars is going to be paying 60 per cent more than what they were paying at the time they made the decision.  If they were on a local platform, they would be paying the same money, that is, they would be saving that 60 per cent. So if you look at it in terms of numbers, if somebody is paying 10 million a month, today they’ll be paying 16 million a month. W i t h u s , they’ll still be paying the 10 million. So that’s the huge difference between the local platform, and it’s nothing about the international platforms but it’s our local business, our inflation, our exchange rate and our local conditions, which is why we say we are best placed to serve the local markets because of what we do.  What do you think is the cause of this penchant for foreign services and products among Nigerians, even in situation where there are better and cheaper local alternatives?  I think I can give you five reasons. At the regulatory point, I think it’s a lack of knowledge, and I don’t mean to insult them, I’m just saying if you were aware that this exists, and it’s important, it would be part of your requirements. There are technology requirements in the regulatory licencing processes.  The biggest regulator in terms of the number of licensees in Nigeria is CBN, because they licence the bank, the micro finance, the mortgage banks, the finance company, the fintech.  But if you look at their requirements, there was no mention of cloud there. And when you realise that 70 per cent of CIOs in the world are looking at the cloud, I think it’s a huge gap in terms of the fact that they are not looking at that. They must make a policy to say this is what we expect of licensees that they either have this or have that. It must be mentioned that if you’re going cloud, this must be the type of cloud that you must go. They don’t have that.  That’s the first thing. And like they say in the absence of regulation, it is a free for all. The second thing is a question of awareness. Do we really have platforms in Nigeria? Like I said on Twitter, they said, there are no data centres in Nigeria, so people are not aware that there are data centres in Nigeria and that the data centres are even internationally certified.  So, it’s not as if someone used corrugated sheet to say I have a centre. The international bodies that certify data centres in America are the same people that certified the data centres in Nigeria, and the Nigerian data centres meet the same requirements as they do. And if you go and look at our data centres, they have won international awards.  The third thing is that people always say, how can you have data centres when we have power problems. And I said, the point is that the power that these people use is an economy of scale. If you’re big enough,  and they’re big enough to be able to generate cheap enough power. The fourth thing is that people believe that Nigeria must be more expensive. We are cheaper than the International platforms.  Not only are we cheaper, like I’ve just mentioned to you, we maintain the same cost because our costs are in naira. All our costs are in naira, so we don’t need to be looking at dollars before we charge. And the fifth thing is just that idea that if it’s foreign, it’s better.  Is that true?  My response to you is that Nigerians are educated in the same foreign places that the foreigners are educated, the boundaries are broken now. You know, in the 50s and 60s You entered a boat, and it took you two weeks to get to England and get to America to go to school.  Today, in five hours, you’re in the UK and in seven hours you are in America. And even in terms of the COVID- 19 vaccine, in terms of the forefront of medicine, Nigerians are there. So, we cannot say that we Nigerians don’t have the brains, or have the understanding or have the technical know how to deliver these solutions.  Now in the absence of a law or regulation compelling Nigerian businesses to host their data locally, what are you doing as local service providers to ensure acceptance?  We are in conversation, we are talking to NITDA, we’re talking to CBN and others. And you know, the fact that you have a minister who is knowledgeable in terms of these challenges and all because he was from NITDA and he has a passion for it, they are driving it.  But there are lots of things to put in place, it’s not just, cloud computing. We are beating the drum of cloud computing, because that’s the space we operate, there’s still that challenge with connectivity.  That’s why you see what Lagos State is doing with the fibre hub. Right of Way has been a challenge for many many years and many state governments, many bodies are trying to resolve that issue. So we’re developing in Nigeria, and I believe we are going in the right direction.  Things are being done, it’s not as if we are sitting still. We do have quite a number of customers on the local cloud platforms, but it’s just not enough. In order to create that growth, in order to stimulate that ecosystem of local hosting, we need a lot more, because with a lot more, we will train people, we will grow, we will create more jobs and more money will stay within our shores, because it will be money within the ecosystem rather than money going out and developing other economies. Because as long as we patronise foreign platforms, we are developing foreign economies we’re not developing the local economy.  Since buying cloud service from foreign companies is done online, is the Nigerian government losing tax from these transactions?  Definitely. Government is losing tax because the revenue that should come to local companies is going abroad and because this is digital. You see, this is the challenge with development.  The challenge with development is that, how do you tax something on the internet. Because the way you tax a transaction is you tell the local vendor, add withholding tax, add this and that tax, you don’t have that jurisdiction, if the person is buying directly outside of the country.  So, you can’t go to Amazon and say add Nigeria’s tax if a Nigerian company is buying. Rather, Nigerian companies are paying tax to the country where the service provider is domiciled. And let’s not get this wrong, I’m not saying this in a discriminatory way, but I’m just saying that if more was done within, there’ll be more development and we will all be winners.  So, some people may say that, why are you asking for these things, that it’s selfish. No, we’re saying this for the economy and for all operators. I’m not the only cloud company in Nigeria. There are several cloud companies. So if you choose to be  within Nigeria, you’re still going to make a choice locally as to which local company you’re going to go with.  So, it’s not about me, it’s a collective sort of discussion, and there’s collective benefit, because if more people are employed here, and there’s more money within the system, everybody benefits. Even you the person that is paying locally, you will benefit from it.  The issue of cybersecurity has been a concern for many stakeholders, especially with cloud computing. For you as Cloudflex, how secure is your service?  Thats a really really good question. In the light of everything that we see and everything that’s going on, you hear this all the time.  The first thing to say is that we are more secure than putting your data in your own premises. We are more secure. Why do I say that, first of all, when you put your data in the cloud, you don’t know exactly where the data is, or should I say, if somebody has malicious intent, there’s no address, location and sites that they can say, let me go and break into it and get it, that’s the first thing that you have.  The second thing that you have is that because of the economies of scale, collectively, we spend more money on security than what an individual can spend on security. So because we spend a lot more money on security, we do a lot more on security than you can do.  Thirdly, virtualisation and cloud computing gives us a more detailed degree of security than you have in terms of physical. So what I mean by that without having to go technical is that you look at the barrier.  The common barrier against threats is a firewall. In a physical situation, a firewall is at the edge and you put a firewall at the edge in a cloud environment. We also put several other firewalls behind the edges and all that gives us a lot more security.  So, earlier you mentioned what CBN should have done, being regulator, but I would also like to know what should be the role of organisations like the Nigerian Communications Commission (NCC) and NITDA in this respect?  Because all of them handle different  silos in terms of our economy, I believe there has to be a handshake between them because I don’t believe that they operate on their own. So by having that handshake, they can play their parts and stimulating our economy by encouraging local content.  Let’s just put it that way, it’s not just cloud, we want to see local content, because by spending locally, you’re invigorating your local economy, as opposed to just spending out.  So, they can say is it possible to use a portion of what you guys are doing locally, as opposed to using it outside Nigeria, is it possible to use Nigerians rather than foreign engineers, is it possible to engage Nigerian subcontractors rather than foreign subcontractors, it’s across the board.  The net effect is that we grow our economy by spending more within our economy. I’m not an economist, but I mean it’s a no brainer. So that’s basically what we’re talking about. And if and if you look at it, CBN’s role is to protect the naira exchange rate and to grow the economy, to keep inflation down. All these things are done by the policies that they do. So, announcing there’s a granularity in these policies, that from a technology point that we noticed now, technology is a big part of development, will change things.  Technology was not as big a part of development 20 years ago as it is today, so you can understand, there was not a focus on it 20 years ago, but today more and more focus is on technology. You see, it’s like what you have with the big buzzword today’s digital currency, and suddenly it’s a big issue because, you know, CBN suddenly saw that a huge amount of the Nigerian economy was moving into that thing so they’ve got to pay attention to it, and they’ve got to bring their laws and regulations to make sure that the country’s interest is protected, and they stimulate local growth by the policies they make within that area. So we’re saying that in the same way within this area of cloud computing, there must be some regulation or some guidelines that encourages local growth.   Considering the fact that those at the helm of affair at CBN are mostly economists, would it be easy for them to come up with a policy on technology, which is not their forte?  If you look at the licence regulation, there is a technological part, and the people you have at the CBN are technocrats. There are some very very good people who understand technology in CBN, but all we are saying is that, hurry up and put this in place. It’s too slow at the moment we’re not seeing that progress in keeping up with the development of the world.  Cloud has exploded in the last five years, it’s even exploded more in the last 18 months because of COVID. Because we’re working from home, in order to work from home, you’ve got to do a lot more in terms of putting infrastructure in the cloud.  Before COVID, a lot of us have never had a zoom. A lot of us never used video conferencing. Today, birthday parties, funerals, weddings, meetings, everything is on zoom and zoom is cloud. So, this is something new, bring the laws and bring the guidelines in line with the evolution of technology.  As Cloudflex, what is your projection in the next five years and what challenges do you envisage that may hinder your projections?  Our goal is to be the premier cloud company, not just in Nigeria, but here in this region, because we as Nigeria have influences across both West Africa and across black Africa, and we are looked upon in other countries.  So, we want to drive that narrative to make us the premier cloud company in this region. Now, what will it take for us to be there.  With or without favourable governmental policies, I believe we’ll still get there because we have a lot going on. And I think that naturally people will see that, because we’re doing a lot to, to convince companies. We’re not asking the authorities to do our bidding but we are asking that there must be a pro Nigerian agenda, or a pro local agenda within here. That’s what we’re looking at.  Managing Director of Cloudflex Computing Services Limited, formerly, Comercio Cloud Computing Company, Aderemi Adejumo, has called for the localisation of data in the country and for more companies to latch on to the provisions of cloud computing to reposition for the future, as technology is evolving and requiring more secured… November 19, 2020 In "Business" Stakeholders in the Cloud Hosting servicer have thrown their weight behind the Nigeria Information Technology Reporters Association (NITRA) as it prepares to host its technology forum. The event has received backing from the nation’s information technology regulator, the National Information Technology Development Agency (NITDA); Cloud services operator, Cloudflex and premier… May 13, 2021 In "Business" Nigeria stands a chance to be one of the largest revenue earners from the global cloud market valued at $1.7 billion in 2020, if all its businesses host locally. This is according to the Chief Executive Officer of Cloudflex Limited, Mr. Aderemi Adejumo. Speaking at a tech forum organised by… June 3, 2021 In "Business"