 The long awaited weekend is here as young football talents meet ex international superstar footballers amid top Nollywood showcase laced with superlative performances by selected Nigerian music icons.
Yes Bauchi will be on fire officially this weekend June 26 to 27 as the Engineer Noah Dallaji Legacy Project Football Talent Hunt kicks off with the full support of Ghana legend Stephen Appiah and El Hadji Diouf of Senegal.
Other stars include former Nigerian internationals, Jay Jay Okocha, Nwankwo Kanu, Daniel Amokachi, Austin Eguavoen, Emmanuel  Babayaro and Tijani Babangida among others also present at the  2nd edition of the African Children’s Talent Discovery Foundation’s (ACTDF) talent hunt and mentoring programme.
The programme dubbed, ‘Engr. Noah Dallaji Legacy Project’, will see talents between ages 16 and 18 years who would be discovered and mentored by big names in African football.
Speaking, the Chairman of the foundation, Engr. Noah Dallaji said: “It is important to develop the natural talent of youths in order to maximize opportunities for a purposeful life.
“Every man has something in him that can be activated and be useful in life. So you must try and discover why you came into this world and begin to be useful not only to ourselves but for the greater good of society.”
A delayed broadcast of the Noah Dallaji Legacy Project Football Talent Hunt will  be on Supersport and other selected television channels.
Interested fans can also catch the livestream action-packed event on actdf.org on instagram, facebook and other social media.  Governor Udom Emmanuel of Akwa Ibom State, in a memorial colloquium organized in honour of the Director General of Infrastructure Concession and Regulatory Commission (ICRC), late Engr. Chidi Izuwah, on Monday, eulogized the deceased and his indelible legacies. Delivering his goodwill message at the International Conference Centre, Abuja, Governor Emmanuel,… May 12, 2021 In "News" The Adopt an Athlete Initiative of the Ministry of Youth and Sports Development under the administration of Sunday Dare has been given a big boost by the African Children Talent Discovery Foundation which adopted two Olympics- bound athletes. Patience Okon-George and Elizabeth Ahanacho were both adopted by the Foundation on… June 13, 2021 In "Sports" Edwin Usoboh South African-based Nigerian music buff, George Beke, a.k.a Geobek, has hinted that plans are underway to unravel fresh music prodigies across the continent using established music talents from Nigeria (via collaborations) to project the skills of scores of music wannabes waiting to be discovered and to co-sign… June 4, 2021 In "Arts & Entertainments"