The Aliko Dangote Foundation (ADF) has doled out a whopping N4.2billion as part of its unconditional Micro Grant Programme for empowering women in the rural areas across the country. Speaking at the flag-off of its one-off unconditional Micro-grants Programme Tuesday in Bauchi, Chairman of the Aliko Dangote Foundation empowered 20,000 vulnerable women across the 20 local government areas of the state.  Dangote, who was represented by the company’s Group Executive Director, Government and Strategic Relations, Mansur Ahmed, said so far over 400, 000 poor women had benefited from the programme in the country. He said in Bauchi State, N200million was currently being disbursed to vulnerable women across the local government areas.  According to the Africa’s top philanthropist, the unconditional micro grant is aimed at supporting the government effort’s in empowering poor families in the state. He said the foundation had earmarked N10billion to be disbursed to vulnerable women across the 774 local government areas in the country.  Dangote said states that have also benefitted from the scheme included Lagos, Kano, Jigawa, Kogi, Adamawa, Borno, Yobe, Niger, Nasarawa, Sokoto, Katsina and Kwara. He added that the next states to benefit from the programme were Osun, Edo, Ogun, Rivers, Anambra and Ebonyi state respectively.  “The micro-grants programme is one component  of the Economic Empowerment pillar of the Aliko Dangote Foundation. It provides disadvantaged and vulnerable women with a one-off, unconditional N10,000,00 cash transfer to boost their household income generation. This we believe will help reduce their vulnerability and meet their livelihood needs,” he added.  He said it was gratifying to note that majority of women who benefitted from the scheme have been able to grow the seed capital. While thanking Aliko Dangote Foundation to coming to assist the vulnerable women in Bauchi State, Governor Senator Bala Abdulkadir Muhammad said he was very elated with ADF’s intervention across the country and especially in his state.  He expressed optimism that the intervention will support lives and livelihoods of women, children and families in Bauchi State.  According to him, “Aliko Dangote is a beacon of hope for the Bauchi people. He has been creating not only business institutions at the highest levels but also touching lives at the lowest level. He seems to understand Nigeria more than some of us who are politicians. He’s supporting our mothers who will help put food on our tables and train their children in schools. “We’ve just named the school of nursing and midwifery after him.  This is to mark his huge contribution to our societies in Bauchi.” “We are also using this opportunity to inform him that he should come and invest in Bauchi. We have the highest deposit of limestone in the country. We have the largest arable land and the largest forest.  Bauchi is also very peaceful and secured.” The governor also presented a book to the Aliko Dangote Foundation. The book was written over a 100 years ago by Sheik Uthman Danfodio, and titled: The Principle of Leadership.  Aliko Dangote Foundation (ADF) said it has so far disbursed N3.924 billion to 392,490 women and youths across 11 states in the country as part of its microgrant programme.   The beneficiary states, according to the Foundation, include Kano, Jigawa, Kogi, Adamawa, Borno, Yobe, Lagos, Niger, Nasarawa, Sokoto and Katsina… February 15, 2021 In "News" Kwara State Government has met all requirements governing the disbursement of Aliko Dangote Foundation Micro-Grants for 16,000 rural women across the state. The Foundation’s Chief Executive Officer, Zouera Youssoufou (Mrs), in a letter of offer and accepted on behalf of the government of the state by Senior Special Assistant to… August 14, 2020 In "Metro & Crime" The Federal Government, yesterday, commenced the disbursement of N20,000 special grant each to 8,000 rural women across the 44 local government areas of Kano State.   The grant was disbursed through the Federal Ministry of Humanitarian Affairs, Disaster Management and Social Development, under its ‘Grant for Rural Women’ programme.  … January 5, 2021 In "News"