Authorities of The Polytechnic, Ibadan, Oyo State, yesterday suspended academic and other related activities in the face of growing concern over insecurity.  This is contained in a statement made available to the New Telegraph by the institution’s Public Relations Officer (PRO), Adewole Soladoye. However, irrespective of the decision, the management indicated that the development would not affect the ongoing second semester examination.  The statement signed by the institution’s Registrar, Mrs. Modupe Fawale, added that the current security situation would be reviewed following which appropriate decisions would be taken.  “The effort is to monitor the security temperature within the institution and its environment,”  Fawale said. The registrar disclosed that academic activities, including conferences, seminars and workshops in the institution had, tentatively, been suspended.  She said: “The authorities of The Polytechnic, Ibadan have suspended all public activities, including conferences, seminars and workshops in the institution and its environment until further notice, apart from the ongoing second semester examinations.”  The workers’ unions of The Polytechnic, Ibadan, have started an indefinite strike to press for the implementation of the new national minimum wage introduced by the Federal Government in 2019. The unions, which comprise of Senior Staff Association of Nigeria Polytechnics (SSANIP) and the Non-Academic Staff Union of… January 11, 2021 In "Education" Management of The Polytechnic, Ibadan, Monday postponed the First Semester Examination for 2019/2020 academic session scheduled to commence today, to Monday October 19, 2020. The announcement, which was made by the Registrar of the institution, Mrs. Modupe Fawale, and confirmed by the Public Relations Officer, Mr. Soladoye Adewole, was sequel… October 1, 2020 In "News" As the scourge of the COVID-19 pandemic is gradually subsiding, The Polytechnic, Ibadan Sunday ordered the resumption of some staff members in order to enable the institution put in place adequate measures ahead of reopening.   This was revealed in a statement signed by the institution’s Registrar, Mrs. Modupe Fawale… August 23, 2020 In "Education"