A 42-year-old father of four and a teenager were killed yesterday in an inter-cult war which erupted in Asaba Delta State.  The teenager, identified as Emeka Omolu, an indigene of Ewulu Kingdom in Aniocha South Local Government Area of the state, was killed around the refuse dump site, near the popular Hausa Market, on the Asaba-Onitsha Expressway.  His assailants, who reportedly chased him to the spot, forced open his mouth and shot into his mouth. The cultists also attacked the second victim with an axe and a machete until he died.  This came three months after three people were killed, which negatively impacted on night life within the Asaba metropolis.  It also came two months after the state Commissioner of Police, Ari Muhammed Ali, paraded over  25 suspected cult members arrested for their alleged involvement in crimes across the state.  The New Telegraph was told that the father of four was the hit-man of one of the warring cult groups.  “This kind of killing is not unusual. Those who kill by the sword, die by the sword. He must have participated in the killings of some other members of the rival group, hence they came after him,” a passer- by said.  The state Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO), DSP Bright Edafe, said in Asaba yesterday that it was cult-related killings. He said: “The command will not relent until the state is safe from criminal elements. Investigation is on.”  It was as if some aggrieved cult groups in the state were waiting for a slight opportunity to strike. They have cashed on the protest by the #EndSARS campaigners, which was hijacked midway by miscreants. “We should be the last'' in the state, cult groups are having a filled day… November 24, 2020 In "City Life" Dominic Adewole ASABA   Gunmen yesterday killed three officers during an attack on a Divisional Police Station at Nsukwa town in Aniocha South Local Government Area of Delta State. The armed men burnt the police station and vehicles parked on the premises of the division.   The attack came three… May 17, 2021 In "Metro & Crime" Armed men have hijacked a commercial bus conveying passengers from a burial in Port Harcourt, Rivers State to Ughelli in Delta State. This came 48 hours after the Delta State Commissioner of Police, Mr. Ari Mohammed Ali, read the riot acts to Area Commanders and Divisional Police Officers (DPOs), over… March 1, 2021 In "Metro & Crime"