…as Bawa makes presentation at UNGASS The Federal Government has made a strong case for the timely return of illicit assets to home countries, even as it said urgent measures must be initiated to discourage illicit financial flows (IFF). Chairman of the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC), Abdulrasheed Bawa, advanced the position while presenting Nigeria’s statement at the ongoing United Nations General Assembly Special Session on corruption in New York, United States of America. Bawa also advocated simplifying the evidentiary requirements and other mutual legal assistance procedures, with a view to enhancing international cooperation, and facilitating timely recovery and return of stolen assets. He said: “Measures must be introduced to mitigate the continuous flow of illicit funds from least developed to developed countries. “State parties must continue to commit to the timely return of illicit assets and ensure implementation of effective anti-money laundering measures by International Financial Centres.” The UN Special Session, which opened on Wednesday June 2, is focused on examining measures to prevent and combat corruption, as well as strengthen international cooperation, pursuant to the General Assembly resolutions 73/191 and 74/276, and decision 74/568, including the adoption of a set of actionoriented Political Declaration on corruption. The Declaration, which was agreed upon in advance through intergovernmental negotiation by State Parties to the UN Convention Against Corruption (UNCAC), covers the thematic areas of prevention, criminalisation and law enforcement; assets recovery and international cooperation as well as cross-cutting issues like education and research, among others. While acknowledging the very beneficial use of “settlements” or “non-trial resolutions” to ensure the disgorgement of illicit gains from corrupt acts, the EFCC’s boss urged Jurisdictions negotiating settlements to, “inform affected jurisdictions that a negotiation toward a settlement is taking place, and proactively share information on concluded settlements.”   ...as Bawa makes presentation at UNGASS The Federal Government has made a strong case for the timely return of illicit assets to home countries, even as it said urgent measures must be initiated to discourage Illicit Financial Flows (IFF). Chairman of the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC), Abdulrasheed Bawa,… June 4, 2021 In "News" The Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC), has directed staff of banks operating in the country to declare their assets on or before June 1. The Commission said the order was "part of measures to sanitize the nation’s financial system and block some of the loopholes currently being exploited by… March 16, 2021 In "News" The Federal Government has canvassed for global action against illicit financial flows and other related vices negatively impacting progress in developing countries, especially in Africa. Vice-President Yemi Osinbajo made the call yesterday at the virtual press launch of a publication by the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development (UNCTAD)… September 29, 2020 In "News"