A professor of Educational and Administrative Management, David Olufemi Bamgbose, yesterday called on the Federal Government to deploy modern technology such as drones to fight banditry, kidnapping and other crimes in the country.  Bamgbose, the governorship candidate of the All Progressives Grand Alliance (APGA) in the  election in Ogun State, said if the war against terrorism, banditry and kidnapping must be won, the Federal Government must invest in drones and other security gadgets.  The don, who disclosed this in an interview with journalists in Abeokuta, Ogun State, lamented the recent attack on Igangan community in Oyo State by suspected Fulani herdsmen.  He berated the uncoordinated reaction of South-West governors to attacks by killer herdsmen in different parts of the region and called on the governors to rise to the challenge in their states before it escalated to the level of the insecurity in the North- East part of the country.  VP, Osoba, Abiodun revalidate APC membership     Vice-President Yemi Osinbajo has said that with the appointment of new Service Chiefs, the Federal Government has developed fresh strategies to combat insurgency, banditry, kidnapping and other security challenges bedevilling the country. Osinbajo stated this yesterday while flagging-off the revalidation and registration… February 10, 2021 In "News" ...visits Ogun to flush out killer-herdsmen   Yoruba rights activist, Sunday Adeyemo popularly known as Sunday Igboho, yesterday stormed Ogun State to flush out killer-herdsmen.   He called on Yoruba as a whole to stand and fight their killers. Igboho, alongside his lieutenants, arrived at Abeokuta, the state capital and… February 2, 2021 In "Metro & Crime" Herders-farmers' crisis exposes Nigeria’s fault lines     FELIX NWANERI reports on the worrisome dimension the standoff over the herders/ farmers crisis has assumed and the dangers it portends to the country’s unity   Ethnic tension is not new in Africa as there have always been disagreements between the various… March 1, 2021 In "Politics"