 Sola Adeyemo, Ibadan The designer of Nigeria’s flag, Pa Taiwo Akinkunmi, has unveiled the world’s largest flag in Ibadan, the Oyo State capital.
The event, which was held at the Polo Ground, Jericho, Ibadan within the week, was attended by eminent Nigerians.
Among them were: the Chief of Defence Staff, General Lucky Irabor, a renowned Nigerian singer, Timi Dakolo, Pa Akinkunmi’s family, close friends, and media representatives, among others.
The flag, according to the organiser of the event, Mr. Babajide Ogunsanwo, has broken the Guinness World record as he said: “It covers an area of 3,275.6 square meters. It has a length of 75.3 meters and a width of 43.5 meters.”
Ogunsanwo stated that: “Prior to the unveiling, the Guinness World record for the largest flag to be flown was held by the United Arab Emirate. It covered an area of 2,448.6 square meters. The process to certify this achievement has begun and should be concluded before the flag is hoisted in Ibadan later this year.”
The 85-year-old Akinkunmi used the occasion to give special recognition to the Chief of Defence Staff, Gen. Lucky Irabor, for surprising and honouring him on the occasion, saying: “I have always dreamt about Nigeria being at the front of every good thing.”
Pa. Michael Taiwo Akinkunmi, who was born on May 10, 1936, told journalists that he designed Nigeria’s national flag 60 years ago when he was studying Electrical Engineering at Norwood Technical College in London.
According to him, he saw a newspaper advert, calling on people to enter a competition to design the Nigerian flag, adding that he mailed his submission to Lagos in 1959 and in October of the following year, he received a letter inviting him to the London Office of the Commissioner for Nigeria in the United Kingdom, where he was told that his green and white design had been selected, and that he had won 100 pounds.
The flag was raised at the Independence Day of Nigeria on October 1, 1960 for the first time.  Akwa Ibom State for close and discerning observers or visitors to the state, your discovery is that the state is quietly cooking a savoury broth in different aspects of the economy and human development, waiting to be served simmering to the world. This much was alluded to recently by the… June 19, 2021 In "Travel & Tourism" The International Breweries Plc, producers of Trophy premium lager, the flagship product of the company, has given a hint of its intention to unveil ‘tallest beer bottle’ in Ibadan, Oyo state. Although no date has been fixed for the event, the plan followed the successful unveiling of same in Lagos… April 15, 2021 In "Business" On Tuesday September 1, 2020, I was 80 years old. If by this age anybody is afraid of death, something must be wrong with that person’s thinking. I have told this story to my son several times that when I started schooling in 1948, I spent one penny for my… October 5, 2020 In "Opinion"