 Romelu Lukaku paid tribute to his Inter Milan team-mate Christian Eriksen after scoring against Russia to help world number one side Belgium start Euro 2020 with a win.
Denmark midfielder Eriksen collapsed on the pitch earlier on Saturday in the Group B game with Finland and received emergency treatment on the field, reports the BBC.
There was some doubt as to whether Belgium’s game with Russia – Denmark’s group rivals – in St Petersburg would go ahead as scheduled because of events in Copenhagen before it was given the all-clear after the Danish Football Association revealed Eriksen was “awake” in hospital.
Lukaku opened the scoring after pouncing on a mistake by Andrey Semenov and celebrated his goal by shouting “Chris, Chris, I love you” in front of a television camera.
Roberto Martinez’s side added to their lead before half-time after substitute Thomas Meunier – an early replacement for injured Leicester defender Timothy Castagne – slotted home when Anton Shunin failed to hold a cross.
In-form Lukaku added a late third with a composed finish to seal a comfortable win.
The victory put Belgium, one of the fancied teams at Euro 2020, top of the group, level on points with Finland, who beat Denmark in a game which was suspended following Eriksen’s collapse before being re-started.
RESULT
Belgium 3 – 0 Russia  ...as Finland beat hosts 1-0 Denmark midfielder Christian Eriksen is "awake" in hospital after collapsing in the Euro 2020 match against Finland, said the Danish Football Association. The 29-year-old's condition has been "stabilised", according to tournament organisers UEFA. The game was suspended before half-time after the Inter Milan player fell… June 12, 2021 In "Sports" The best of the world's strikers are going to be on parade at the Euro 2020 and one of the most fearsome is Romelu Lukaku who will lead Belgium's front line when they face Russia in their opening encounter at the Gazprom Arena today (Saturday). Belgium are the number one… June 12, 2021 In "Back Page Columnist" Manchester United came from behind to beat Austrian side LASK at Old Trafford, advancing to the quarter-finals of the Europa League 7-1 on aggregate. Anthony Martial came off the bench to score the winner four minutes from time, collecting Juan Mata's precise through ball before finishing off his 23rd… August 5, 2020 In "Sports"