The Arewa Consultative Forum, (ACF) yesterday warned northerners not to travel to the South East except if the issue is between life and death.  In a travel advisory to its members across the country, following the killing of the former aide to President Goodluck Jonathan, Ahmed Gulak, ACF said it was such killing of Northerners in 1966 that lead to the Civil War were thousands were killed.  The statement signed by National Chairman of ACF, Chief Audu Ogbe, said: “The Arewa Consultative Forum (ACF) hereby issues a very strong advisory to all northerners who may wish to travel to the South-East. “Northerners should weigh the importance and necessity of such travels.  Unless such trips are absolutely necessary and of compelling nature, like matters of life and death, they should NOT be made.  And where the trip must be undertaken, the traveller should take every security precaution in his or her movements while there, including linking with the security agencies at the place/places to be visited.”  The Forum added: “The need to issue this travel advisory has become necessary against the backdrop of history, wherein events such as the killings of northern leaders in 1966 triggered the events that led to a civil war that cost the country thousands of lives, and an untold sufferings to millions of innocent people.  To be forewarned is to be forearmed, and a stitch in time saves nine! “ACF warns over attacks, killings of northerners.  The ACF has noticed of late with increasing concern the attacks on/ killing of northerners resident and or visiting the South, particularly the South-East  …issues travel advisory to Northerners visiting the S’East The Arewa Consultative Forum, (ACF) yesterday warned northerners not to travel to the South East except if the issue is between life and death. In a travel advisory to its members across the country, following the killing of the former aide to… May 31, 2021 In "News" Ohanaeze Ndigbo Youth Council Worldwide (OYC) has urged National Publicity Secretary of Arewa Consultative Forum (ACF), Mr. Emmanuel Yawe to stop peddling fake news of attacks and killings of Northerners in South-East during the #EndSARS protest. OYC said that Yawe's allegations that over 30 northerners were killed and 50 trucks… October 29, 2020 In "News" The Arewa Consultative Forum (ACF) has warned northern elite to refrain from making wild and inflammatory utterances on the killings and general insecurity in the North. The group, which said that at no time except during the civil war had the North been so insecure, also said that unguarded statements… August 24, 2020 In "Editorial"