…as Abiodun donates equipment to police The Inspector General of Police (IGP), Usman Alkali Baba, yesterday vowed to ruthlessly deal with the criminals who are fermenting trouble across the country. Baba gave the pledge while taking delivery of security vehicles and equipment donated to the Nigeria Police by the Ogun State government. The equipment donated included: Over 55 patrol prohicles, motorcycles, 200 bullet proofs, 20 helmets and communication equipment. Governor Dapo Abiodun handed over the equipment to the IGP at his office in Oke-Mosan, Abeokuta, the state capital. In his address, Baba noted that the equipment would upscale operations of the security agents in the fight against insecurity in the state. He maintained that lawng to fear, but the security operatives would deal with the trouble makers ruthlessly. The IGP who branded Abiodun a “security conscious governor,” said the donation would go a long way in ensuring security of lives and property in the state. Abiodun also declared that his government would smoke outcriminals and prosecutethem to serve as deterrent to others. He said the government views criminality as an act of sabotage “against our collective responsibility.” Abiodun said “Let me reiterate, just like the IG said, having done all these, any criminal in Ogun State if don’t stop your criminal activities or intentions we will find you, we will smoke you out, we will arrest you and you will face the fullest extent of the law. Because it is an act of sabotage our collective responsibility.”   President Muhammadu Buhari on Tuesday sprung a surprise on the nation when he removed a former Inspector General of Police, Mohammed Adamu, from his seat. In his place, the president, who was represented by the Minister of Police Affairs, Maigari Dingyadi, announced a Deputy Inspector- General of Police (DIG) Usman… April 9, 2021 In "Editorial" Following the appointment of the Deputy Inspector General (DIG), Mr. Usman Baba, as the acting Inspector General of Police (IGP), some retired and security experts have urged the Baba to overhaul the nation’s security system by ensuring that welfare, morale booster equipment procurement are provided for personnel to effectively discharge… April 7, 2021 In "News" In his determination to turn the tide against criminal elements, the Acting Inspector General of Police (IGP), Mr. Usman Baba, has effected minor changes in the command structure of the Force. Consequently, the IGP has ordered the posting of Mr. Abutu Yaro, as the new Commissioner of Police (CP) in… May 4, 2021 In "News"