An All Progressives Grand Alliance (APGA) aspirant for the November 6 governorship election in Anambra State, Hon. Damian Okolo, has called on the party to ensure the emergence a candidate from Nnewi since the governorship has been zoned to Anambra South Senatorial Zone. Okolo, who made the call, while fielding questions from journalists in Onitsha, said that will serve as an honour to the late Igbo leader, Dim Chukwuemeka Odimegwu Ojukwu. “Every election time, politicians in APGA normally put on clothes adorned with Chief Ojukwu’s images as a mark of honour, and because the Ezeigbo Gburugburu was the founder and leader of the party, it is equally honourable that the governorship ticket of APGA should be zoned to Nnewi as a mark of respect for Ikemba,” he said. Okolo said that since the governorship ticket of APGA has been zoned to the southern senatorial district of the state, it is only fair and just that Nnewi community should produce the next governor as Ihiala and Aguata local government areas have produced governors at different times. The aspirant, who promised to run an all-inclusive government if elected the next governor of Anambra State, said the major focus of his administration would be peace and security of the state. Pointing out that nothing could thrive in an environment devoid of peace and security, he said: “I will create a conducive atmosphere in so that people can return home to invest. I am not going to build Dubai but my administration will encourage Ndi Anambra to come home and join hands in building a new Anambra State that would be the first destination of any investor wishing to invest in Nigeria. He urged delegates who will participate in the June 23 primary election of the party to vote based on their conscience and for a person who has the capacity to deliver dividends of democracy to the people.   Soludo: Grappling with APGA's hidden forces The attack on the former Governor of the Central Bank Nigeria (CBN), Prof Charles Soludo, has shown that there are serious rumblings in the All Progressives Grand Alliance (APGA) in Anambra State ahead of the governorship election in November. OKEY MADUFORO reports.   The… April 6, 2021 In "Politics" …APGA, APC yet to commence sale of forms The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has, so far, raised N213 million from sales of nomination and expression of interest forms for its June 26 governorship primary election for the November 6 gubernatorial poll in Anambra State. Thirteen aspirants, comprising 10 males and… March 31, 2021 In "News" OKEY MADUFORO reports on emerging political developments within the All Progressives Grand Alliance (APGA) fold ahead of the 2021 governorship election in Anambra State     The zoning arrangement in the political equation of Anambra State took a new twist last week, when the people of Ihala Local Government Area… November 3, 2020 In "Politics"