The Confederation of African Athletics has joined President Muhammadu Buhari in congratulating the Minister of Youth and Sports Development, Mr Sunday Dare who celebrated his 55th birthday on Saturday. In a congratulatory message addressed to the Nigerian Youth and Sports Development Minister and signed by its president, Hamad Kalkaba Malboum, the CAA says Mr Dare embodies ‘the kind of leadership Africa is yearning for and I look forward to working with you in moulding a better future for Africa in general and Nigeria in particular.’ The CAA president wished the Sports Minister many more years in health, prosperity and happiness and says he shares in President Buhari’s commendation of Mr Dare. ”I follow in the lead of His Excellency Muhammadu Buhari, President of the Federal Republic of Nigeria in expressing the same sentiment that you bring “positive energy” in leading Nigeria’s Ministry of Youth and Sports Development, especially through your dedication for Nigeria.”   Minister of Youth and Sports Development Mr Sunday Dare has been honoured by the Association of National Olympics Committees of Africa with the Highest Order of Sports Administrator Award for his immense contributions to the growth of the Olympics Movement and Sports in Africa. Conferring the Award on the Minister… May 12, 2021 In "Sports" Minister Youth and Sport Development, Mr. Sunday Dare, yesterday described the President Muhammadu Buhari-led government as one which puts the youths on top of its agenda with the N-Power program being one of the largest youth- focused empowerment programmes in the sub-Saharan Africa.   The Minister said this at the… February 21, 2021 In "News" The Federal Government has handed the President of the Nigeria Football Federation (NFF), Amaju Melvin Pinnick an unqualified backing in his quest to win a seat on the FIFA Council – the highest decision-making organ in world football – at next week’s Confederation of African Football (CAF) elections in Rabat,… March 4, 2021 In "Sports"