 Teams at Euro 2020 could face fines if their players move drinks provided by sponsors at news conferences, as Cristiano Ronaldo and Paul Pogba have done in recent days.
On Monday, Portugal captain Ronaldo removed two bottles of Coca-Cola and encouraged people to drink water.
The next day, France midfielder Pogba, a practising Muslim, discreetly removed a bottle of Heineken beer, reports the BBC.
Italy’s Manuel Locatelli also replaced Coca-Cola with water on Wednesday.
“UEFA has reminded participating teams that partnerships are integral to the delivery of the tournament and to ensuring the development of football across Europe, including for youth and women,” tournament organisers said on Thursday.
UEFA’s Euro 2020 Tournament Director Martin Kallen said players were contractually obliged “through their federation of the tournament regulations to follow”.
However, he said he understood the actions of players who, like Pogba, did such things for religious reasons.
Teams have been reminded of their contractual regulations and Kallen said disciplinary action was “a possibility”.
UEFA  does not intend to directly fine players and any sanctions are at the discretion of the national federations.
“We are never fining players directly from the UEFA  side, we will do this always through the participating national association and then they could look if they will go further to the player, but we are not going directly for the moment to the player,” Kallen said.
“We have the regulations signed by the participating federations.”  •Fernandes can also shine against weakened opponents UEFA Nations League title holders Portugal will start off their 2020-21 campaign as they take on Croatia at the Estadio do Dragao in League A Group 3 on Saturday night and their talismanic captain Cristiano Ronaldo will be hoping to reach another milestone.… September 5, 2020 In "Back Page Columnist" Edwin Usoboh   UEFA Euro 2020 is starting in about six days. To ensure that every home can enjoy the thrilling tournament, StarTimes is offering a wide range of affordable watching options. Starting June 5, new subscribers can enjoy a special Euro 2020 offer as StarTimes dish and decoder kit… June 4, 2021 In "Sports" ...as Finland beat hosts 1-0 Denmark midfielder Christian Eriksen is "awake" in hospital after collapsing in the Euro 2020 match against Finland, said the Danish Football Association. The 29-year-old's condition has been "stabilised", according to tournament organisers UEFA. The game was suspended before half-time after the Inter Milan player fell… June 12, 2021 In "Sports"