The ECOWAS Court of Justice sitting in Abuja yesterday “restrained the government of President Muhammadu Buhari and its agents from unlawfully imposing sanctions or doing anything whatsoever to harass, intimidate, arrest or prosecute Twitter and/or any other social media service provider(s), media houses, radio and television broadcast stations, the Plaintiffs and other Nigerians who are Twitter users, pending the hearing and determination of this suit.” The ruling followed the suit filed against the government by Socio-Economic Rights and Accountability Project (SERAP) and 176 concerned Nigerians arguing that “the unlawful suspension of Twitter in Nigeria, criminalization of Nigerians and other people using Twitter have escalated repression of human rights and unlawfully restricted the rights of Nigerians and other people to freedom of expression, access to information, and media freedom in the country.” According to a statement issued by the Deputy Director of SERAP, Kolawole Oluwadare, the court gave the order after hearing arguments from counsel to SERAP, Femi Falana (SAN), and counsel to the government, Maimuna Shiru. In the judgement, the court held: “The court has listened very well to the objection by Nigeria. The court has this to say. Any interference with Twitter is viewed as inference with human rights, and that will violate human rights. Therefore, this court has jurisdiction to hear the case. The court also hereby orders that the application be heard expeditiously. The Nigerian government must take immediate steps to implement the order.” Reacting to the ruling, Femi Falana (SAN) said: “The intervention of the ECOWAS Court is a timely relief for millions of Nigerians using Twitter who have been threatened with prosecution under the provision of the Penal Code relating to sedition. “Contrary to the assurance credited to the Attorney General of the Federation and Minister of Justice Mr Abubakar Malami (SAN) that violators of the Twitter would not be prosecuted, the Federal Government filed processes in the ECOWAS Court threatening to prosecute Nigerians using Twitter for violating the suspension under the provisions of the Penal Code relating to sedition. “It is extremely embarrassing that the Federal Government could threaten to jail Nigerians for sedition, which was annulled by the Court of Appeal in 1983, in the case of Arthur Nwankwo vs. The State.” The suit and the ruling followed the suspension of Twitter by the Minister of Information and Culture, Lai Mohammed after the social media giant was banned in the country for deleting President Muhammadu Buhari’s tweet. The National Broadcasting Commission (NBC) also ordered TV and radio stations to “suspend the patronage of Twitter immediately”, and told them to delete “unpatriotic” Twitter. The substantive suit has been adjourned to July 6, 2021 for hearing of the substantive suit. It would be recalled that SERAP and the concerned Nigerians had in the suit No ECW/CCJ/APP/23/21 sought among others, “An order of interim injunction restraining the Federal Government from implementing its suspension of Twitter in Nigeria, and subjecting anyone including media houses, broadcast stations using Twitter in Nigeria, to harassment, intimidation, arrest and criminal prosecution, pending the hearing and determination of the substantive suit.”   Akeem Nafiu The Community Court of Justice of the Economic Community of West African States (ECOWAS) will on June 22 commence the hearing of a suit challenging the Federal Government's suspension of the operations of microblogging platform, Twitter, in Nigeria.   The plaintiffs in the suit are the Registered… June 15, 2021 In "News" The Community Court of Justice of the Economic Community of West African States (ECOWAS) will on June 22 commence the hearing of a suit challenging the Federal Government's suspension of the operations of microblogging platform, Twitter, in Nigeria.   The plaintiffs in the suit are the Registered Trustees of the… June 14, 2021 In "News" Socio-Economic Rights and Accountability Project (SERAP) and twenty-four concerned Nigerians have sued the government of President Muhammadu Buhari and National Broadcasting Commission (NBC) at the ECOWAS Community Court of Justice in Abuja over “the arbitrary use of the NBC Act and broadcasting code to target, harass, sanction, and fine… May 2, 2021 In "News"