…promises welfare, deployment of weapons to troops President Muhammadu Buhari has charged the armed forces never to give terrorists and criminals any breathing space in various parts of the country adding that the war must be concluded with restoration of peace and reconstruction of all the affected areas. The President equally promised to prioritize the welfare of the soldiers at the battlefield and deploy weapons and ammunitions to the troops to prosecute the war. According to a statement issued by his spokesman, Malam Garba Shehu, President Buhari said this in Maiduguri, Borno State, while on official visit to personnel of the Armed Forces and security agencies in Operation Hadin Kai at the Maimalari Cantonment. Governors of Borno and Yobe State, Babagana Zulum and Mai Bunu respectively, Chief of Defence Staff, Gen. Leo Irabor, Chief of Army Staff, Maj. Gen Farouk Yahaya, Chief of Naval Staff, Rear Admiral Awwal Gambo, Chief of Staff, Air Vice Marshal Isiaka Amao and National Security Adviser, Maj Gen. Babagana Monguno (rtd), were also at the event. The President, who said the nation owed the military men and women, particularly those that paid the ultimate price, a debt of gratitude, also assured the family members that the government would continue to support all their loved ones. He assured the wounded soldiers of best medical care for their quick recoveries. He added: “I am delighted to be with you this afternoon, to address you on this special occasion of my official visit to Borno State. I want to seize this opportunity to put it on record that our nation will forever be indebted to you, for your patriotic commitment to the defence of our fatherland against insurgency and criminality. “I, therefore, commend you and remember all the personnel who have paid the supreme sacrifice in ensuring that Nigeria remains an indivisible and secure entity. “As I send my heartfelt condolences to the families of our fallen heroes and pray for the souls of the departed, I want to assure you that my administration will spare no effort or resources to ensure that the widows and children of our fallen heroes who paid the supreme price in defence of our beloved country, are well cared for.” President Buhari acknowledged the the troops’ collective efforts at decimating and degrading the terrorists and reaffirming the inviolable sovereignty of the country while extolling their steadfastness and untiring efforts at the face of the difficulties they experience in the Theatres of Operation.  The Chief of Defence Staff (CDS), Maj-Gen. Lucky Irabor, yesterday, led other Service Chiefs on operational visit to Borno State, the epicentre of Boko Haram activities.   The CDS was accompanied by the Chief of Army Staff, Maj-Gen. Ibrahim Attahiru; Chief of Air Staff, Air Vice Marshal Isiaka Amao and… February 1, 2021 In "News" ...promises welfare, deployment of weapons to troops President Muhammadu Buhari has charged the armed forces never to give terrorists and criminals any breathing space in various parts of the country adding that the war must be concluded with restoration of peace and reconstruction of all the affected areas. The President… June 17, 2021 In "News" The Coalition of Human Rights Monitoring Groups (CHRMG) says Nigeria has made significant strides in human rights compliance in the prosecution of the war against terrorism.  The human rights group, which made this known at a press conference on Thursday in Abuja, also noted that the troops have adhered to… January 21, 2021 In "News"