 Christiane Amanpour, anchor of Amanpour, a global affairs interview programme on CNN International, says she has been diagnosed with ovarian cancer.
Amanpour disclosed this during a live broadcast on Monday.
According to her, she was absent from the programme for the past four weeks due to the diagnosis, adding that she is now undergoing chemotherapy.
“I want to first thank Bianna Golodryga and the whole team for holding down the folks so well over the last four weeks, which has been a bit of a roller-coaster for me, because during that time, like millions of women around the world, I have been diagnosed with ovarian cancer,” she said.
“I have had successful major surgery to remove it, and I’m now undergoing several months of chemotherapy for the very best possible long-term prognosis and I am confident.
“I’m also fortunate to have health insurance through work and incredible doctors who are treating me in a country underpinned by, of course, the brilliant NHS.”
Amanpour advised women to “educate themselves” on the disease, and carry out regular scans.
“I’m telling you this in the interest of transparency. But in truth, really, mostly as a shoutout to early diagnosis — to urge women to educate themselves on this disease; to get all the regular screenings and scans that you can; to always listen to your bodies, and of course to ensure that your legitimate medical concerns are not dismissed or diminished,” she said.
Amanpour is an international journalist known for war and conflict reporting.  Reactions to the death of Larry King, whose broadcast interviews with world leaders, movie stars and ordinary Joes helped define American conversation for a halfcentury, have been pouring in.   King died Saturday at Cedars-Sinai Medical Centre in Los Angeles at age 87 from com During his six-decade career, which… January 24, 2021 In "News" Recently, some Children Living with Cancer had their birthday celebrated at Lagos University Teaching Hospital, (LUTH) by the Children Living with Cancer Foundation, (CLWCF). In this interview with Dr. Nneka Nwobi, founder of Childhood Cancer Foundation, she said childhood cancer is a battle that still needs a lot of… June 13, 2021 In "Body & Soul" Childhood cancer is an issue no parent prays to experience. It is a traumatic experience that does not spare both the parent and the child. It is heart rending and emotional watching one’s child in pains or watching him make the passage to the world beyond, helplessly. In this interview… March 28, 2021 In "Interview"