Super Eagles midfielder, Ogenyi Onazi, and ex-Golden Eaglets star, Emmanuel Sani, have joined millions of Nigerians to mourn the demise of Prophet T.B Joshua.
The popular prophet, who was also a philanthropist, contributed to football development and impacted on the careers of both players.
When contacted to confirm the death of the founder of Synagogues of All Nations, Onazi simply said: “Sad truth”
He further wrote on his Instagram page: “Rest in Peace Papa”
The former Lazio star Onazi in a recent interview told journalists that the late Prophet prayed for him to help him achieve his dream.
“I did not make the open screening of the Golden Eaglets and thereafter I joined a friend to go to Lagos for TB Joshua to pray for me,” he recounted.
“He prayed for me and I joined his team My People’s FC, who later played in a tournament in Sweden, where we did well and I was recalled to the Golden Eaglets by the new coach of the team (John Obuh).”
In same vein, former U-17 star striker, Sani Emmanuel, is also in mourning mood as he also benefited from the departed man of the God.
He wrote on his Facebook: “REST IN PEACE DADDY”
The man of God was the founder of My People Football Academy, Lagos  “She was cautious and very intelligent. I knew she was going to be a good asset to me. She nurtured my attitude, character, as she gave reasons for me to be calm and do things the right way among my friends. I will say it is a blessing.” Those were… August 29, 2020 In "Sports" The Founder of the Synagogue, Church of All Nations, Temitope Joshua, better known as Prophet TB Joshua, is dead. Joshua reportedly died on Saturday night in Lagos after concluding a programme at his church, online news portal, SaharaReporters is reporting. The church and his family have not officially announced… June 6, 2021 In "News" There was wailing on the streets of Ikotun and inside the Synagogue Church Of All Nations (SCOAN) yesterday the death of the founder of the church, Prophet Temitope Balogun Joshua.   The surge of people to the church caused a gridlock in the axis as the traffic was being controlled… June 7, 2021 In "Metro & Crime"