 Daniel Atori, Minna Barely 24 hours after after 15 persons, including a Policeman, were killed in Beri, Mariga Local Government Area of Niger State, armed bandits struck agai invading Kanfanin Bobi village also in the LGA killing three persons in the process.
They also burnt the Police station.
It should be recalled that the bandits, had on Monday, attacked Beri in Bobi District leaving a Mobile Policeman and 14 other villagers dead.
Confirming the attack on Tuesday, the Director General, Niger State Emergency Management Agency (NSEMA), Ibrahim Inga, said the agency got report of the attack and that the bandits also rustled an unconfirmed number of cattle at  Maigoge villlage also in Mariga LGA.
“Three persons were killed, several others injured and displaced in Kanfanin Bobi in Mariga LG this (Tuesday) morning,” he said.
All efforts to reach the state’s Command Police Public Relations Officer, DSP Wasiu Abiodun proved abortive as he did not answer calls put through to his phone.  ...abduct dozens in Mariga LGA Armed Bandits have attacked Beri village in Bobi district of Mariga Local Government of Niger State killing a Mobile Police officer and 14 villagers. The New Telegraph, however, learnt that the Beri Police Station was burnt by the bandits with several people reported to have… May 31, 2021 In "Metro & Crime" ...11 pupils, four others regain freedom   Bandits yesterday killed a mobile police officer and 14 villagers during an attack on Beri village in Bobi District of Mariga Local Government Area of Niger State. The bandits also torched the Beri Police Station while several people were injured during a stampede… June 1, 2021 In "Metro & Crime" No fewer than 20 vigilantes have been killed by bandits in an ambush in Kotonkoro Village of Mariga local government area of Niger State and 9 villagers in Kaduna State yesterday. In Niger, findings revealed that the bandits attacked a military base in Kotonkoro on Wednesday during which a soldier… March 26, 2021 In "News"