All Progressives Congress (APC) governorship aspirant in Anambra State, Dr. Chidozie Nwankwo has described the ruling All Progressives Grand Alliance (APGA) in the state as no match for the APC. Nwankwo, stated this, when he submitted his Expression of Interest and Nomination Forms to the party’s National Secretariat, Abuja. He said: “My reputation in Anambra State is not in doubt, having been the head of the biggest market in Onitsha. The town controls all the elite who are decision makers in all the 177 communities. I have been a leader in Onitsha Main Market for 10 years. Within the 10 years of my reign, I brought a change that cannot be erased in 100 years. I have been in the market and our popularity is indescribable. The legacy I left when I was the leader of the market supersedes any influence APGA has in Anambra State.” Nwankwo also said with a good policy on agriculture and business model, the wave of insecurity in the zone will be drastically reduced. “There can’t be absolute peace in Anambra State until a good leader gets to power. There will be a drastic change towards agitations. If you read my manifesto, I am going to single Anambra out to become the industrial hub of Africa and millions of teeming youths will not have time to demonstrate when they are employed. “I have done businesses in seven countries of the world. I have been to Isreal about three times, I have been to Ethiopia with outstanding agricultural records. We are going to employ the best brains. Why people fail in agriculture is because they do not look for those with the pedigree, people with the records and experience to manage their entities. That is why they failed”, he stated. On the mode of primary election to be adopted by the APC, he said the party’s leadership is in the best position to determine which method suits Anambra State.   A key governorship aspirant in the forthcoming November 6, 2021 election in Anambra State and Chief Executive of the National Inland Waterways Authority (NIWA) Dr. George Moghalu has said that youth welfare and empowerment will be his top priority as governor of the state.   The political bigwig of the… May 16, 2021 In "Politics" Echezona Okafor Nnewi   The Chairman of All Progressive Congress (APC), Anambra State chapter, Hon. Basil Ejidike, has said that infrastructural development provided in the state and the South- East geopolitical by the Muhammadu Buhari-led Federal Government have helped to endear the party to the people and will help facilitate… June 8, 2021 In "Politics" The Anambra State governorship election scheduled for November 6 has attracted a good number of aspirants from major political parties.   Although, the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) said 17 political parties will contest the election, investigations by New Telegraph showed that 38 aspirants have so far obtained the nomination… May 2, 2021 In "News"