It is already one year that an influential power-broker in Lagos State, Senator Bayo Osinowo passed on. WALE ELEGBEDE reports the vacuum created by his demise Just like yesterday, the shattering news of the demise of the former Chairman, Senate Committee on Commerce, Industry and Investments, Senator Bayo Osinowo, on June 15, 2020, left many Nigerians, his associates and family devastated given the immense impact and influence he wielded in elective office and in political circle. Osinowo, popularly called Pepperito was a pleasant, grassrootsoriented and large-hearted politician, and there is no doubt that his exit created a vacuum in both the dynamic Lagos politics and the National Assembly where he represented Lagos East senatorial district for barely one year. National Leader of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, who is Osinowo’s political leader, in a his condolence message then, wrote: “The sudden, unexpected passing of Osinowo has deeply hurt me and Lagosians. He was more than a close friend and political associate. Over the years he became like a family member and brother in so many ways. He was a stabilising figure who worked hard and tirelessly to make Lagos a better place.” Prior to winning the Lagos East seat in 2019, Osinowo was the go-to guy in the politics of the Centre of Excellence state. He had served four terms as member representing Kosofe State constituency at the Lagos State Assembly between 2003 and 2019 before heading to the National Assembly. Aside from chairing the Committee on Lands and Housing in the Lagos State Assembly, he was aptly known as the ‘unofficial leader’ of the House during his time. He was reputed to have been instrumental to the emergence of two speakers of the Assembly. “My emergence as Speaker of the 8th Assembly was through him and he contributed to the success of our elections in the South-West,” Speaker Mudashiru Obasa said about the late Osinowo. He was ebullient, lively, and full of humour. He possessed the charisma for a political leader and was a super benefactor to many. Little wonder, different people from different class couldn’t hold back tears seeing the remains of their benefactor. T he ebullient politician, who died at 64, had managed some businesses before joining politics in the Second Republic, when he served as a youth wing chairman of the Social Democratic Party (SDP). He was also among those who fought and endured military jackboots during the National Democratic Coalition (NADECO) struggle to validate the mandate of the June 12, 1993, presidential election. Although his position in the Red Chamber has been validly occupied by a former Bank Managing Director, Senator Tokunbo Abiru, the legacies and the impact of Osinowo still looms large in the senatorial district. Thankfully, his successor has also continued to build on his legacies and programmes. A devoted Muslim, who was the eyes and ears of Tinubu when he was in the Assembly, Osinowo was a core member of the Mandate Group and his input in party machinery helped built and sustained the progressives structure in the state. Speaking with reporters in Lagos recently, the deceased’s younger sister and close confidant, Bose Osinowo, said each passing day brought with it, living memory of her elder brother, who she described as one who could not hurt a fly and a kindhearted person. Bose Osinowo, a Lagos socialite and Managing Director of B.O. Oil and Gas Limited said the entire family is yet to come to terms with the reality that he is no more. “It is a sad experience for me and the entire Osinowo family last year when the news filtered in that he was dead. As a matter of fact, no one in the family is yet to get out of the shock. “For anyone that knew him or came in close contact with him, his amiable and philanthropic gestures can hardly be forgotten. I missed him and I will forever miss him indeed,” she said. Marking Osinowo’s one year anniversary in Lagos, political leaders and public office holders in the state urged leaders to emulate the impactful, people-oriented politics and exemplary leadership quality of the late Lagos East lawmaker. Senator Seye Ogunlewe, Primate Charles Odugbesi, Ashipa Kaoli Olusanya, and others stated this at the one-year remembrance programme organised by friends and associates of late Osinowo on Wednesday at the Ojota area of Lagos. Speakers at the event took time to extol the exemplary leadership of the late senator. According to them, the late Osinowo used the platform of his selfless politics to impact the people, stressing that he left a legacy of service to the people. Director-General of Bayo Osinowo Campaign Organization, Primate Charles Odugbesi described the late Senator as a generous man who touched the lives of the people of his constituency and beyond. He said that late Osinowo never subscribed to do-or-die politics and that he was a firm believer in playing by the rules. He said: “We have come to celebrate the achievements and impact made by our late senator and pray for the people he left behind. There is no doubt about the fact that our beloved senator was a model of leadership. “He was committed to the service of the people and touched so many lives. We will continue to celebrate him because he has set examples for purposeful leadership.” Ogunlewe, a former Minister of Works, while extolling the virtues of the late Osinowo, said he was always helping people regardless of class or background. “The late Osinowo was helping people. He did so much for me and my family. He was a man of the people and a leader, who played politics to impact the people. Although he is no more, his achievements and legacies are there for everyone to see. He will be greatly missed,” he said. Also speaking Ashipa Kaoli Olusanya, Vice Chairman, Lagos State chapter of the APC described Osinowo as a rare politician filled with the milk of human kindness. Reflecting on his visit to the late senator’s office in Abuja, Olusanya said he was surprised to see late Osinowo responding to the needs of the people, who were calling him on phone for assistance. “People were just calling him on the phone for assistance. He never complained, instead, he appealed to them to give him little time to get across to them. He was just sending cash alerts to people. He had such a large heart with which he touched lives,” he said. Olusanya stated that politics is about service delivery, stressing that the late senator did not disappoint the people of his constituency while representing them. The APC chieftain added that Osinowo was a model for purposeful leadership, urging other leaders to emulate his selflessness. Prayers were offered for the families of the late senator at the programme, which was attended by APC faithful, his political associates and people of Lagos East constituency.  Two vacant seats in Lagos East Senatorial District have unsettled the internal affairs of the ruling party in the state, the All Progressives Congress (APC) and the leading opposition party, Peoples Democratic Party (PDP). How will the parties resolve the motley of aspiration for their respective tickets? WALE ELEGBEDE writes… August 10, 2020 In "Politics" Wale Elegbede examines the quest by the people of Epe Division of Lagos East Senatorial District to have one of their own succeed late Senator Bayo Osinowo The contest for who succeeds the late Senator Bayo Osinowo, who represented Lagos East Senatorial District in the Ninth Senate until demise recently… July 16, 2020 In "Politics" TEMITOPE OGUNBANKE writes on the forthcoming Lagos East Senatorial District by-election to fill the seat vacated by late Senator Bayo Osinowo The contest for who succeeds late Senator Bayo Osinowo, who represented Lagos East Senatorial District in the Ninth Senate till June 15, has started earlier than expected as about… July 3, 2020 In "Politics"