 The largest ship in the Iranian navy caught fire and later sank Wednesday in the Gulf of Oman under unclear circumstances, semiofficial news agencies reported.
The Fars and Tasnim news agencies said efforts failed to save the support ship Kharg, named after the island that serves as the main oil terminal for Iran.
The blaze began around 2:25 a.m. and firefighters tried to contain it, state TV said. The vessel sank near the Iranian port of Jask, some 1,270 kilometers (790 miles) southeast of Tehran on the Gulf of Oman near the Strait of Hormuz — the narrow mouth of the Persian Gulf, Reuters reported.
The state-run IRNA news agency later said the “rescue operation for the Kharg failed,” without elaborating on what that meant.
Photos circulated on Iranian social media of sailors wearing life jackets evacuating the vessel as a fire burned behind them. State TV and semiofficial news agencies referred to the Kharg as a “training ship.”
The Kharg serves as one of a few vessels in the Iranian navy capable of providing replenishment at sea for its other ships. It also can lift heavy cargo and serve as a launch point for helicopters. The ship, built in Britain and launched in 1977, entered the Iranian navy in 1984 after lengthy negotiations that followed Iran’s 1979 Islamic Revolution.
The incident marks the latest naval setback for Iran. In 2020 during an Iranian military training exercise, a missile mistakenly struck a naval vessel near the port of Jask, killing19 sailors and wounding 15. Also in 2018, an Iranian navy destroyer sank in the Caspian Sea.  Former President, Nigerian Association of Master Mariners (NAMM), Captain Adewale Ishola, has said that the decision of Denmark to bring their vessels to patrol the Gulf of Guinea beginning in November 2021 was a welcome development. He said that anti-piracy operations could only be mandated by the United Nation Convention… March 27, 2021 In "Feature" Pirates are making life difficult for ship owners in Nigeria’s maritime domain as kidnapping of crew members has now become the order of the day. Within the last nine months, there has been 40 per cent increase in the number of kidnap incidents, BAYO AKOMOLAFE reports   In the last… November 18, 2020 In "Business" • War risk insurance premium highest in 10 years • Ship owners hire personal security • NIMASA launches Deep Blue project next month   As the Nigerian Maritime Administration and Safety Agency (NIMASA) prepares to begin aggressive fight against piracy and all forms of criminalities in the Nigerian maritime domain… May 30, 2021 In "Business"