Elder statesman, Chief Emmanuel Iwuanyanwu has called on the Nigerian leadership and political class to intentionally cultivate the spirit of peace, love and unity in their subjects and constituents, if Nigeria must rewrite its present ugly narrative. Chief Iwuanyanwu also called on the Federal Government to review its operational modalities in the fight against insecurity in the country; to leave nothing to chance and embrace the culture of dialogue and peace building. The Chairman of Ohanaeze Ndigbo Elders’ Council gave the advice while receiving the Sir Ahmadu Bello Platinum Leadership Award for superlative leadership from the Northern Nigerian Youth Council. Chief Iwuanyanwu recalled the sterling leadership quality of statesmen like Dr. Nnamdi Azikiwe and Sardauna of Sokoto, Sir Alhaji Ahmadu Bello who ensured the peaceful co-existence of Nigerians as one united country. Chief Iwuanyanwu described Sir Ahmadu Bello as a great leader who brought the northern region together as one entity irrespective of religion and tribe. He called on the present leaders to emulate such qualities pointing out that nothing in this world is greater than peace and unity. Chief Iwuanyanwu enjoined the Federal Government to review its operational method of fighting insecurity especially in the South-East and seek a way of using dialogue with the various groups agitating for secession in the country such as the Pro-Biafra Group, Oduduwa Republic led by Sunday Igboho, the Middle Belt group and others. He advocated bringing all the parties to a conference table pointing out that having tried the use of force through the barrels of the gun and it did not work, dialogue should be the best option.   Worried by the alarming security situation in Nigeria, elder statesman and Chairman, Ohaneze Ndigbo Council of Elders, Chief Emmanuel Iwuanyanwu, has described the unfolding events in the country as extremely disturbing while urging Northern and Igbo leaders to reach out across the Niger and discuss the matters at hand.  … June 13, 2021 In "News" Governors of South- East and the President- General of the apex socio-cultural organization, Ohanaeze Ndigbo were among prominent Nigerians who gathered in Owerri, the Imo state capital to honour Chief Emmanuel Iwuanyanwu on his 78th birthday. While the governors described his footprints as indelible, President- General of Ohanaeze Ndigbo, Chief… September 11, 2020 In "News" President Muhammadu Buhari has called on leaders at all levels to show exemplary leadership, so as to overcome the current challenges facing the country. President Buhari made the call in a message to the 2021 annual lecture of Arewa House, held on Saturday in Kaduna.   Represented by his Chief… March 28, 2021 In "News"