 Two female hawkers were on Friday crushed to death by a truck around Lotto, inbound Lagos on the Lagos-Ibadan Expressway.
Mr Babatunde Akinbiyi, the Spokesman, Traffic Compliance and Enforcement Corps (TRACE), confirmed the incident to News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) in Abeokuta.
Akinbiyi explained that the incident occurred around 3:30pm, saying that the driver of the truck, marked SMK 82 XY, lost control, skidded off the road and rammed into two female road-side hawkers, killing them on the spot.
The TRACE spokesman stated that three other people were injured in the accident.
Akinbiyi said: “The truck has been taken to Mowe Divisional Police Station, with the driver in their custody.”
He said that the deceased were deposited at the Idera morgue in Sagamu while the injured were taken to Famobis hospital, Mowe.
He commiserated with the family of the deceased, while urging motorists to avoid excessive speeding and reckless driving on the road.  Four persons have been crushed to death while two others were injured in an accident involving a Daf truck and a commercial bus around Capital Hotel area on the Ijebu Ode-Oru Road in Ogun State. The spokesperson, Traffic Compliance and Enforcement Corps, Babatunde Akinbiyi who confirmed the incident, said it… November 21, 2020 In "Metro & Crime" Five persons were confirmed dead in a multiple accident at Sagamu interchange diversion area along the Lagos-Ibadan Expressway on th8. The Spokesman of the Ogun State Traffic Compliance and Enforcement Corps (TRACE), Babatunde Akinbiyi who conformed the accident to journalists in Abeokuta, the State capital, explained that the accident involved… August 20, 2020 In "Metro & Crime" Six people, among them a fiveyear- old boy, yesterday lost their lives while 12 others sustained injuries in two auto crashes in different parts of Ogun State.   The five-year-old boy and three others died in a lone accident, involving a Mazda bus around Isara Bridge on the Lagos-Ibadan Expressway.… September 29, 2020 In "Metro & Crime"