The rematch between the Super Eagles of Nigeria and the Indomitable Lions of Cameroon is just a training match, which will not affect the rating of the two teams, as the tie was not registered with the world football governing body FIFA as an international tie.  Cameroon beat Nigeria 1-0 in the first encounter last Friday in a match dominated by wasteful Super Eagles. Although the rematch is scheduled for tomorrow June 8 at the same Austria venue, the Media Officer of Super Eagles Femi Raji confirmed that the second tie is not important as the first one as this is not an official match since it was not registered with FIFA.  “It (Tuesday match) is just a mere training match; it is not a match registered as friendly within the FIFA calendar but the lads will still give their best because they want to convince the coach about their worth,” he said.  Meanwhile, ex-international Emmanuel Babayaro, said the Super Eagles Manager Gernot Rohr should have used the friendly matches to expose more home-based players  The arrival of Super Eagles captain, Ahmed Musa and forward Paul Onuachu (voted Best Player and Top Scorer in Belgium in the just-concluded season), has boosted the camp of the Nigeria national team ahead of the international friendly match against the Indomitable Lions of Cameroon scheduled for this Friday, in… June 3, 2021 In "News" ...as Rohr names 31 players for tie The Nigeria Football Federation has confirmed an international friendly match between the Super Eagles and the Indomitable Lions of Cameroon for Austria on June 4. With World Cup qualifiers put off by FIFA till September, Nigeria and Cameroon will now utilise the June… May 15, 2021 In "Sports" Nigeria’s Super Eagles on Friday night lost 1-0 to Cameroon’s Indomitable Lions, the first time the Cameroonians have defeated Nigeria in regulations time since 27 August 1989. The winning goal came in the 37th minute when Andre-Frank Zambo Anguissa fired home from the edge of the penalty box. What was more,… June 4, 2021 In "Sports"