Chairman of Katsina State Athletics Association, Ahmed Kaita, has been endorsed by the Northern states to continue their tenure as the Athletic Federation of Nigeria President as the board elections come up on June 14 in Kebbi.
A former Nigerian quartermiler, Sadiq Abubakar, said the right man for the job is Ahidjo Ahmed Isa Kaita because of his antecedents and passion for the sports.
He added that as far as athletics is concerned, Kaita is a suitable candidate from the North that can move the sport to the next level particularly as the Olympic Games is fast approaching.
Abubakar said for many years, the athletics board has been engulfed by crisis hence the need for a fresh hand like Kaita to bring back the lost glamour.
“It is regrettable that our representative and former President Ibrahim Gusau went there and started fighting the powers that be, the Minister which we did not quite support,” he said.
“We believe the North still has another tenure and that is why he is coming out to complete it.”
Abubakar added that he was glad that the country’s athletes are doing very well and can compete with the best nations like Jamaica, the USA and Britain at the next month’s Olympic Games in Tokyo.  CHUKWU DAVID reports on how some pro-President Muhammadu Buhari senators recently joined their colleagues to urge the President to sack the service chiefs for their failure to tackle insurgency in the country The carnage unleashed on innocent and helpless rice farmers in Zabarmari community in Jere Local Government Area of… December 9, 2020 In "Politics" ...set to lose AFN seat   Zamfara State Directorate of Sports Development has announced the removal of Engr Ibrahim Shehu Gusau as chairman of the State Athletics Association.   In a letter addressed to the Secretary General of the Athletics Federation of Nigeria (AFN) dated August 17,2020 and signed by… August 18, 2020 In "Sports" The President of the Athletic Federation of Nigeria, Ibrahim Gusau, has said the just-concluded CAA Region II Championship held around the Sports Complex of the Ahmadu Bello University in Zaria was highly competitive and well attended. Gusau who also doubles as the Africa Athletics Region II President expressed contentment at… June 2, 2021 In "Sports"