The House of Representatives has summoned the Executive Secretary of Petroleum Product Pricing Regulatory Agency (PPPRA), Mr Abdukadir Saidu, over unremitted N1.62 billion Internally Generated Revenue (IGR) to the Federation Account. The Chairman, House Committee on Finance, Rep James Faleke, gave the directive at an investigative hearing into alleged 30 billion dollars annual revenue leakage on Tuesday, in Abuja. Faleke said that the directive was necessary to enable the PPPRA boss give explicit explanation on what actually happened to the N1.62 billion IGR and why it was not remitted to the Federation Account. He said that committee would peruse the agency’s book from 2012 to date, adding that PPPRA must provide the IGR generated since 2012. He also stated that the agency must provide the identity of the person it loaned money to, adding that the committee needed the approval letter from the Accountant General’s office. Faleke stated that on no account shall any withdrawal be made from the revenue account, stressing that a peep into the constitution would provide a better understanding. The lawmaker also demanded explanation on conflicting figures in the consumption of fuel in the country. He added that NNPC was earlier quoted to have said that daily consumption of fuel was 93 million litres, while PPPRA had also said that daily consumption of fuel was 80 million litres per day. Said had failed to appear before the committee to answer questions. However, Mr Peter Etuk, PPPRA, General Manager Finance, PPPRA, while responding to the daily consumption of fuel, stated that the consumption on daily bases differs. He stated that some days, fuel consumption could go higher, while at some point it would reduce   Reps mediate in agency, NIPOST face off   FG to help states recover backlog   The Executive Chairman, Federal Inland Revenue Service (FIRS), Muhammad Nami, has said the agency is generating N3 billion weekly from Stamp Duty collection by deposit money banks (DMBs).   Nami disclosed the figures to members… August 12, 2020 In "News" The House of Representatives yesterday stressed the need for revenue generating agencies of government to remit 25 per cent internally generated revenues into the federation account as stipulated by extant laws.   The chairman of the House Committee on Healthcare Services, Hon. Yusuf Tanko Sununu, (APC, Kebbi),… November 3, 2020 In "News" The Senate Committee on Public Account has summoned the Nigerian National Petroleum Coporation (NNPC) for the second time, over non-remittance of N4.07 trillion to the Federation account between 2010 and 2016.   The committee also summoned Petroleum Products Pricing Regulatory (PPPRA) and Department of Petroleum Resources (DPR) in respect of… March 29, 2021 In "News"