Governors of the All Progressives Congress (APC) have resolved to meet with the Minister for Justice and Attorney General of the Federation, Abubakar Malami, over the implementation of the recommendations of the Judiciary and state Legislature autonomy. This is even as the governors charged its members to rededicate themselves to the party so as to ensure victory in 2023 general elections. The governors under the umbrella of Progressive Governors Forum (PGF) stated this in a statement by its chairman and Governor of Kebbi State, Senator Atiku Bagudu, after their emergency meeting in Abuja. It also charged the APC Caretaker/Extraordinary Convention Planning Committee to make sure they resolve all crises before the party’s National Convention. On the implementation of the recommendations of the Committee on state Judiciary and Legislature autonomy, Bagudu said Forum reviewed the work done by NGF Committee on autonomy for Judiciary and State Legislature under the Chairmanship of Aminu Waziri Tambuwal, Governor of Sokoto State. “Noted that the Governor Tambuwal-led NGF Committee consulted all the critical stakeholders, notably leadership of State Judiciary and Assemblies and jointly reached agreements on specific initiatives to be taken by State Governments to guarantee autonomy for State judiciary and assemblies; “Accordingly, Forum endorsed agreements reached by the Governor Tambuwal-led NGF Committee and enjoined all APC controlled states and indeed all states to commence the process of implementing the submitted recommendations; “As part of the process of implementing the NGF agreements in APC controlled states, appropriate consultations with Attorneys- General will take place in order to provide all necessary legal framework for the implementation of the Governor Tambuwal- led NGF Committee’s proposed recommendations.”  'Fiscal autonomy for legislature and judiciary' ll deepen democracy'   AKEEM NAFIU writes that more than 10 months after the issuance of an Executive Order by President Muhammadu Buhari, fiscal autonomy for state legislatures and judiciaries has remained a mirage as state governors continue to observe Section 121(3) of the… April 5, 2021 In "Law" Sokoto State Governor, Aminu Tambuwal, yesterday said that state governors are wholly in support of financial autonomy for the legislature and judiciary at the state level, but would want its implementation to follow the provisions of the constitution. The governor, in an interaction with State House Correspondents after leading the… April 16, 2021 In "News" ...urges JUSUN to call off strike Sokoto State Governor, Aminu Waziri Tambuwal, has said that state governors are wholly in support of financial autonomy for the legislature and judiciary at the state level but would want its implementation to follow the provisions of the constitution. The governor, in an interaction… April 15, 2021 In "News"