•Ebri: Security is everybody’s business •Present system not working –ECWA President •Community policing way to go –James Bassey  More Nigerians have joined the league of those calling on President Muhammadu Buhari to convene a national summit on security with a view to finding a lasting solution to the pervading insecurity in the land.  Former Governor of Cross River State, Chief Clement Ebiri, President, Evangelical Church Winning All (ECWA), Rev (Dr.) Stephen Baba Panya and founder Southern Atlantic Polytechnic, Uyo, Akwa Ibom State, Pastor James Bassey, in separate interviews with Sunday Telegraph, said the current situation in the country calls for concerted effort by all and sundry to steer the country away from the precipice.  Ebiri, a chieftain of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) said that the current spate of insecurity was beyond what the Federal Government can handle alone. He said: “I believe the President should call for a dialogue to discuss the issue of restructuring. Such should be attended by the presidency, governors and leadership of the legislature.  The proposed dialogue would consider all the issues challenging the nation and areas which need constitutional amendment before a subsequent bill for amendment of the constitution can be sent to the National Assembly for action.” Speaking in the same vein, Rev (Dr.) Paya said total restructuring is the way to go.  He said: “I believe that the solution depends on the Federal Government because all the security agencies that are to provide protection to the people are neither under the control of the state governors nor the local government chairmen, who are among the three tiers of government.”    Echoes of impeachment of President Muhammadu Buhari reverberated in the House of Representatives last week over the worsening security situation in the country. PHILIP NYAM examines the threat and allied issues A member of the House of Representatives representing Jos East/Jos South federal constituency of Plateau state on the platform… May 6, 2021 In "Politics" A call has gone to President Muhammadu Buhari, to consider the removal of Service Chiefs over the security situation in the country. A power bloc in the All Progressives Congress (APC) under the auspices of APC Consolidation Group, which made the appeall, feared that the President may lose the massive… August 23, 2020 In "News" ...insist minister should be held accountable Reactions have continued to trail the presidency’s defence of the Minister for Communication and Digital Economy, Dr. Isa Pantami, over his alleged romance with some terror groups in the world. The leadership of the Movement for the Actualisation of the Sovereign State of Biafra… April 24, 2021 In "News"