 Minister of Youth and Sports Development, Mr Sunday Dare has  commended President  Muhammadu Buhari for making good the promise made by the country to the players by allocating houses to the victorious 1994 Nations Cup Super Eagles after successive  governments failed to do so.
“This is the hall mark of a great leader. A sports loving President for that matter.
“I want to most sincerely  thank President Muhammadu Buhari for his quick response to the memo  raised by  Minister  of Works and Housing  Babatunde Raji Fashola (SAN). This matter had lingered for too long, but thanks to the President for making this long standing promise a reality.This is not only heart warming, but timely and commendable.This is another confirmation  that the president  loves  sports and would always reward our sports men and women who make this country proud. We are so delighted that the labour of our heroes has not gone in vain.”
Buhari approved the allocation of three-bedroom houses to the Tunisia’94 winners in their states of preference.
The Minister of Sports also thanked Fashola, who had was unrelenting on this issue and never tired of several  follow ups that came his way from the ministry.
The players that will benefit from the allocations include: Peter Rufai, Alloy Agu, Ike Shorounmu, Uche, Austin Jay Jay Okocha, Nduka Ugbade, Uche Okechukwu, Samson Siasia, Efan Ekoku, Sunday Oliseh, Benedict Iroha, Isaac Semitoje, Mutiu Adepoju, Edema Fuludu, Emmanuel Amunike, Victor Ikpeba, Austin Eguavoen and Wilfred Agbonavbare (deceased).
Others are: Uche Okafor (deceased), Thompson Oliha (deceased), Stephen Keshi (deceased), Christian Chukwu, Dr Akin Amao, Stephen Edema, Col. A Asielue and B. Aromasodun.  President Muhammadu Buhari has approved the allocation of 3-bedroom house to each member of the Super Eagles squad that won the African Cup of Nations in Tunis, Tunisia, in 1994. This, according to a release by his spokesman, Malam Garba Shehu, was to redeem a promise by the Federal Government… June 25, 2021 In "Sports" Lawrence Olaoye, Abuja   President Muhammadu Buhari has approved the allocation of 3-bedroom houses to the Super Eagles squad that won the African Cup of Nations 27 years ago in Tunis, Tunisia. This according to a release by his spokesman, Malam Garba Shehu, was to make real a promise by… June 24, 2021 In "Sports" President promises to confer with ECOWAS leaders on Mali’s crisis Former President Goodluck Jonathan has stated that his relationship with President Muhammadu Buhari remains cordial. Jonathan, in an interaction with State House Correspondents after a meeting with Buhari, said: “You’ve been seeing me coming and you have been seeing us… July 22, 2020 In "News"