A security expert and Coordinator of Interpol, Chief Chikwe Udensi, has blamed the security challenges in the South East states on the weakness of the governors. Udensi said in a radio programme in Umuahia, Abia State capital, that the governors of the five states of the South East zone were responsible for the escalating insecurity in the zone because of lack of commitment. The 2011 governorship candidate of PPA in Abia State regretted that the proposed Ebube Agu security outfit was yet to come into full force even after the Western security outfit, Amotekun was fully operational because the South West governors were proactive. “The fact of the matter now is that the level of insecurity in the country has exposed the inability of the federal security agencies to be able to provide security for the country. That is why the Federal Government has allowed the states to have their own security outfits. “All south eastern and south southern governors have been sleeping on the issue of security. “The south eastern governors are not doing much in this regard. The one that has been established by the South East governors has been moribund,” he said. On the security votes the governors collect monthly, the security said: “If you see the volume of funds that is received by the governors every month by way of security votes, you will be totally shocked at what they are doing. “The governors that collect these security votes, they pocket it. They don’t use it for the purpose for which they were funded. It’s not being used to ensure that even the minimum security arrangements are put in place. It is a pity, it is pathetic. “The South East governors are not united, they have decided not to leverage through the window provided by the Federal Government.” On who to blame for the growing insecurity, the federal or state government, Udensi said: “We are going to hold the state governors responsible for their inability to take advantage of the window provided by the Federal Government for us to have a very formidable regional security outfit called Ebube Agu.   Since April 11, 2021 when the Ebube Agu Security Network was established by Governors of the South-East after a meeting in Owerri, the Imo State capital, the security outfit is yet to commence operations in almost all other states in the region.   Without any known operational structure, without any… June 16, 2021 In "News" Major-General Obi Umahi is the former General Officer Commanding (GOC) 81 Division Nigerian Army. In this interview monitored on Channels Television, the chairman, South-East Security Committee speaks on the new security outfit formed by South-East governors, rising insecurity in the region, the framework of Ebubu Agu security outfit, among others.… April 15, 2021 In "Politics" Kudos, knocks for S'East govs UCHENNA INYA writes on whether the formation of Ebubeagu, a joint security outfit by South-East governors can salvage the region from heightened insecurity?     Governors of South-East under the umbrella of South- East Governors Forum rose from its security summit in Owerri, Imo State… April 21, 2021 In "Politics"