 Brentford are set to sign Frank Onyeka from FC Midtjylland subject to a work permit.
The 23-year-old has agreed to join the Bees from their sister club in Denmark following positive talks.
Onyeka – a Nigeria international – is likely to remain in Denmark during the work-permit process, where he can complete a medical and stay fit with his current club until it is issued.
Sky Sports News revealed last week that Onyeka was in talks over a move to the newly-promoted Premier League side.
A deal between the clubs is a formality to conclude because they are both owned by Matthew Benham.
Brentford head coach Thomas Frank says the reality of playing Premier League football has finally sunk in after the 2021/22 fixtures were released on Wednesday morning. His side host Arsenal on the opening day.
Brentford also want to strengthen this summer at right-back, right centre-back, midfield, on the wings and at centre-forward, as they prepare for their first season in the Premier League.
Right-back Henrik Dalsgaard has moved in the opposite direction to Midtjylland, and attacker Emiliano Marcondes has left the club, while top-goalscorer Ivan Toney is being tracked by other clubs.  Leeds United have been promoted to the Premier League after 16 years away. Their place in the top flight for next season was confirmed by West Brom's 2-1 defeat at Huddersfield Town on Friday. Leeds will now be crowned champions if Brentford do not beat Stoke on Saturday or the… July 17, 2020 In "Sports" ...targets Man United, Arsenal Lille offer 25m Euros for replacement There might be a new twist in the transfer of Super Eagles striker, Victor Osimhen, as it was reported that the player is holding on for offers from English Premier League clubs, Manchester United and Arsenal. Osimhen is set to… July 8, 2020 In "Sports" Jose Mourinho reached another Carabao Cup final as his Tottenham side saw off the challenge of Brentford. Moussa Sissoko's excellent header and a trademark finish from Son Heung-min were enough for the Premier League favourites to book a trip to Wembley, reports the BBC. Ivan Toney thought he had… January 5, 2021 In "Top Stories"