 The Senate, yesterday, uncovered about N84 billion mismanaged by the management of the Nigeria Social Insurance    Trust Fund (NSITF) within four years, from 12 out of 50 queries investigated so far by the apex chamber.  The Chairman, Senate Public Accounts Committee, Senator Mathew Urhoghide, made this disclosure, saying that the agency was a cesspool of corruption.  According to him, 12 out of 50 queries investigated so far by the committee, which is in excess of N84 billion, was misappropriated, lamenting that this was done within a space of four years  He said that it was unfortunate that the management of NSITF and the board of the agency colluded to deplete the nation’s resources between 2012-2017. “They are all guilty, they  are implicated, they stole the place dry. The agency is most defiant and most notorious, ” he lamented.  One of the queries read: “Audit observed that the Fund had been implementing a salary structure that is not approved by the National Salaries, Income and Wages Commission.  As a result, irregular payment of N38.219 billion by way of personnel cost was made to the staff of the Fund from 2012 to 2017. “Implementation of unapproved salary structure may result in wastage of public funds, as remuneration may be higher than the productivity level of staff.  “The managing director is required to provide the approval of the National Salaries, Income and Wages Commission for the implementation of the Fund’s salaries structure.”  However, the Managing Director of NSTIF, Dr. Michael Akabogu, in his response, claimed that the amount was approved by the commission through a letter dated July 4, 2019. When the committee looked at the letter from the commission on the illegal salary, it was observed that the letter was written five years after the commission started paying the salaries.  The committee further discovered in the letter from the commission that an objection was raised about the payment of unapproved salaries by the commission.  The letter of National Salaries, Incomes and Wages Commission, read in part: “However, the following anomalies are observed in the consolidated salary are General Manager and Deputy General Manager are both places on GL17 respectively, and One GL17, (General Manager) salary grade has eight steps while another GL (Deputy General Manager) and GL 16 salary grades have five steps each.  “The Fund is, therefore, advised to arrange a meeting of the fund, its supervising ministry and this commission to rectify these anomalies before the next promotion exercise.”  In another query, which reads, “Audit of the Fund’s bank statements for the period under review revealed that contributions received from the Federal Government in 2014, amounting to N5.500 billion were diverted to a Zenith Bank account number 1013938003, instead of the Skye Bank account number 1790122304 into which other contributions were paid, without providing any authority or any form of explanation for such diversion.  “Audit further observed the following: The bank account was opened without the approval of the Accountant- General of the Federation, as no such approval was presented for audit.  “The new account was opened specifically for this purpose as seen in the bank statements where a first tranche of N2.750 billion was used in opening the account on the 29th of August 2014.  “Transfers were further made from the account to third parties, individuals and other NSITF accounts without payment vouchers and other supporting documents to authenticate such transfers.  “This puts doubt in the genuineness of all the transactions in the bank account. Consequently, audit cannot accept such transactions without necessary evidence as legitimate charges against public funds.”  The third query reads: “Audit observed from the Fund’s Statements of Account No. 1750011691 with Skye bank plc, for the period January 1, 2013 to December 20, 2013, and Statements of Account No.2001754610 with First Bank Plc for the period 7th January, 2013 to 28th February, 2013, that amounts totalling N17.158 billion were transferred to some persons and companies from these accounts.  “However, payment vouchers relating to the transfers together with their supporting documents were not provided for audit. Consequently, the purpose(s) for the transfers could not be authenticated.” Consequently, the committee sustained the queries on irregularities raised against the NSTIF  The Senate, Monday, uncovered about N84 billion, mismanaged by the management of the Nigeria Social Insurance Trust Fund (NSITF) within four years, from 12 out 50 queries investigated so far by the apex Chamber. The Chairman, Senate Public Accounts Committee, Senator Mathew Urhoghide, made this disclosure, saying that the agency… June 28, 2021 In "News" PHILIP NYAM reports on how the House of Representatives picked holes in the recent suspension of some top management staff of the Nigeria Social Insurance Trust Fund (NSITF)   Allegations of corruption at the Nigeria Social Insurance Trust Fund (NSITF) have become a recurrent decimal like that of the… August 4, 2020 In "Politics" The House of Representatives has picked holes in the recent suspension of some top management staff of the Nigeria Social Insurance Trust Fund (NSITF). PHILIP NYAM examines the decision   Allegations of corruption at the Nigeria Social Insurance Trust Fund (NSITF) have become a recurrent decimal like that of the… July 15, 2020 In "Politics"