Former National Chairman of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Adams Oshiomhole, has apologised to the governor of Edo State, Godwin Obaseki, over the treatment meted out to him in APC.  Oshiomhole, who was governor of Edo State, tendered his apology in a congratulatory letter to Obaseki on his victory at the Supreme Court over the certificate forgery.  In the letter address to Obaseki, Oshiomhole said: “Congratulations on your victory at the Supreme Court which has effectively laid to rest all matters arising from the last election.  “As I had repeatedly reminded you during our several meetings, our relationship has through the years developed beyond being friends to being brothers of different parents.  Whatever happened is unfortunate and I believe God has a reason for everything. I have put all behind me and moved on. “As I have consistently advised, please be magnanimous in victory.  You are the Governor of all Edo people regardless of political leanings. Once again, congratulations Your Exellency, Please accept the renewed assurances of my very best wishes and high regards   True is the saying that success has many fathers but failure is an orphan! While those on the sunny and shiny side of success are wont to beat their chest and amplify, even exaggerate, their contributions, those responsible for failure, as it were, are wont to shift blames and pass… September 23, 2020 In "Back Page Columnist" Ex-APC chair distances self from plot     Benin Edo State Deputy Governor, Comrade Philip Shaibu, has accused the former National Chairman of All Progressives Congress (APC), Comrade Adams Oshiomhole, of plotting to overturn the victory of Governor Godwin Obaseki at the September 2020 election through the judiciary.   Shaibu… December 28, 2020 In "News" Doing a postmortem on the September 19, 2020, governorship election in Edo State, let's consider the issue of power and character, as they relate to Governor-elect Godwin Obaseki. On Tuesday, September 22, Obaseki featured in two events where he made contradictory statements as a fallout of the hotly-contested election tagged,… September 28, 2020 In "Opinion"