Founder, African Children Talent Discovery Foundation (ACTDF), Engr. Noah Dallaji, has said that the body would continue to provide the platform for youths who are talented in the game of football to realize their dream.  Dallaji made this known at the weekend at the end of a two-day talent hunt and mentoring programme organized by the foundation in Bauchi, Bauchi State. The event which is part of the Engr. Noah Dallaji Legacy Project covering music, entertainment and the arts had football as main interest in its second edition where talents of 16 and 18 years were selected and mentored by soccer legends. A total of 12 outstanding talents were discovered at the event.  Speaking at the closing ceremony at the Tafawa Balewa Stadium, venue of the event, Dallaji noted the challenge youths face in the development of their talents but assured that the ACTDF would continue to provide the platform for such talented young people to realize their ambition if they are determined to do so. He was of the opinion that many Nigerian youths have talents and as such the ACTDF was out to discover such talents, adding that the mentoring element of the programme was important since it would give them the needed inspiration.  Dallaji was optimistic that through the programme, which, he said, would continue to be an annual event, soccer stars that are bigger than their mentors could be discovered.  “Many Nigerians are talented, only waiting to have a platform, a ladder, they can climb and that ladder has come. We are here to show the world that Nigeria will be better.  The long awaited weekend is here as young football talents meet ex international superstar footballers amid top Nollywood showcase laced with superlative performances by selected Nigerian music icons. Yes Bauchi will be on fire officially this weekend June 26 to 27 as the Engineer Noah Dallaji Legacy Project Football… June 25, 2021 In "Sports" The Adopt an Athlete Initiative of the Ministry of Youth and Sports Development under the administration of Sunday Dare has been given a big boost by the African Children Talent Discovery Foundation which adopted two Olympics- bound athletes. Patience Okon-George and Elizabeth Ahanacho were both adopted by the Foundation on… June 13, 2021 In "Sports" Organisers of the National Principals Cup for secondary schools have proposed to hold the competition at the end of the year, as a fitting event to relax students from the boredom and trauma of the long lockdown. Coordinator of the age-long and prestigious school sports event, Tony Pemu, also Managing… June 25, 2020 In "Sports"