Chairman of the Independent Corrupt Practices and Other Related Offences Commission (ICPC), Prof. Bolaji Owasanoye (SAN), has said that about $700 million assets had been recovered in the last six years. This was as Owasanoye tasked African leaders on the compelling need to prioritise the recovery of assets at local, regional and global levels, including return of artworks and artefacts. Spokesperson for the ICPC, Mrs. Azuka Ogugua, in a statement, Wednesday, quoted the commission’s boss as stating the positions during a virtual Commonwealth regional conference for anti-corruption agencies in Africa. In a paper entitled “Understanding the Common African Position on Asset Recovery (CAPAR)”, the ICPC boss noted that the prioritisation of recovery of assets at the three levels had become imperative, to facilitate the recovery of African assets. “In Nigeria, precisely Benin, Edo State, two major artefacts have been returned while the country has recovered between $600 million and $700 million assets in the last six years,” he was quoted as saying. Owasanoye also advocated the strengthening of legal and financial institutions, with a view to facilitating the asset recovery process. In his estimation, establishment of funds, trusts and dedicated African escrow accounts to be held by regional financial institutions, should be included in the process.  The Federal Government has said that over $700 million looted funds stashed abroad was recovered and returned to the country, between 2017 and 2021. Attorney General of the Federation (AGF) and Minister of Justice, Mr. Abubakar Malami (SAN), made the disclosure in a welcome address at an international conference on… May 19, 2021 In "News" ...says deceased official helped self, cronies with N2.5bn The Independent Corrupt Practices and Other Related Offences Commission (ICPC), has said that its asset recovery drive culminated in the seizure of a whopping N16 billion from the Federal Ministry of Agriculture early this year. According to the Commission, the diverted fund… September 28, 2020 In "News" The Chairman of the Independent Corrupt Practices and Other Related Offences Commission (ICPC), Prof. Bolaji Owasanoye, has said that all monies recovered and generated by the Commission were paid into the coffers of the Federal Government. Owasanoye, who appeared before the Senate Committee on Finance, investigating the activities of revenue… April 30, 2021 In "News"