An Abuja High Court sitting in Apo yesterday sentenced a former Chairman of the House of Reps probe panel on fuel Subsidy, Farouk Lawan to seven years imprisonment. The trial judge, Justice Angela Otaluka found him guilty of demanding a bribe of $3million and receiving $500,000. The court found the former Representative guilty in the three-count charge brought against him by the Independent Corrupt Practices and Other Related Offences Commission (ICPC) against him. Justice Otaluka sentenced the convict to seven years in prison on counts one and two of the charge respectively and five years on count three. The sentence is, however, to run concurrently. Lawan, who was the Chairman of House Adhoc Committee on Petroleum Subsidy Regime in 2012, was dragged to court by the Independent Corrupt Practices and Other Related Offences Commission (ICPC), on behalf of the Federal Government. The former lawmaker, a four-term member of the House of Representatives, who represented Bagwai/Shanono Federal Constituency of Kano State between 1999 and 2015, in the case marked FCT/HR/ CR/76/13, was alleged to have demanded the sum of $3million for himself from the Chairman/Chief Executive Officer (CEO) of Zenon Petroleum and Gas Limited, Femi Otedola. He was alleged to have collected $620,000 out of the amount with a view to removing Otedola’s companies’ names from the list of firms indicted by the ad hoc committee for allegedly abusing the fuel subsidy regime in 2012. The court also ordered the convict to make restitution of the sum of $500,000 he collected from Otedola to the coffers of the Federal Government.  A High Court in the Federal Capital Territory (FCT) has sentenced the former Chairman of the House of Representatives ad-hoc committee on Petroleum Subsidy, Farouk Lawan to seven years in prison. Lawan during trial on Tuesday was found guilty of count one, two, and three bothering on corruptly asking… June 22, 2021 In "Top Stories" The Court of Appeal, Abuja Division, yesterday, dismissed the appeal filed by former House of Representatives member, Farouk Lawan, seeking to terminate the $3 million bribery charges brought against him by the Federal Government. The appellate court, in a unanimous decision, held that a prima facie case was well established… August 5, 2020 In "News" Justice Ibrahim Buba of a Federal High Court in Lagos on Wednesday sentenced a former Executive Director at the Nigerian Maritime Administration and Safety Agency (NIMASA), Captain Ezekiel Bala Agaba, to a cummulative jail term of 49 years over N1.5 billion fraud. The judge found Agaba guilty of seven counts… July 15, 2020 In "News"