The Gombe State Deputy Governor, Manassah Daniel Jatau, has called for more prayers for the administration of Governor Muhammad Inuwa Yahaya, in the state.
The call came during the celebration of the second anniversary of the administration in the state at the weekend.
It will be recalled that the leadership of the Christian Association of Nigeria (CAN) has organised a special prayer session in commemoration of the two years anniversary of the administration.
The leadership of the Christian Association of Nigeria said the prayers were in line with scriptural injunctions that asked the faithful to pray for those in authority as the bible acknowledged that every authority is instituted by God.
The deputy governor, who was the special guest of honour at the occasion, said ‘prayer is the secret of the success of every endeavour, especially in administration and governance,’ therefore Christians should not faint or be weary in seeking the face of God in their affairs  D are-devil armed thugs on Monday attacked Dunamis International Church, Ayingba, in Dekina Local Government Area of Kogi State, beating up Christian worshipers who were on a peaceful prayer walk for the country.   The thugs allegedly led by a former chairman and local government  chairmanship aspirant for the December… October 21, 2020 In "News" Governor Adegboyega Oyetola of Osun State has said that the slogan "Ileri Oluwa", which has become the mantra of his administration, was given to him by God.   Speaking yesterday at the thanksgiving service held in commemoration of the second anniversary of his administration held at The Redeemed Christian Church… November 30, 2020 In "News" Kwara State government has announced the cancellation of the 2020 congregational Eid prayers across the whole state because of the huge numbers that are expected to gather for the special Eid prayers and the possibility of such gatherings leading to spike in COVID-19 cases and potential deaths. This decision was… July 24, 2020 In "Metro & Crime"