 Euro 2020 opened in spectacular fashion as Italy got their campaign off to an impressive start in front of their own fans with a comfortable victory against Turkey.
In the first game of the rescheduled tournament, played at at Rome’s Stadio Olimpico, an own goal by Merih Demiral and strikes by Ciro Immobile and Lorenzo Insigne settled a one-sided Group A contest, reports the BBC.
The Azzurri dominated the first half but could not find the net, Giorgio Chiellini going closest with a header from a corner which brought a fine save from Ugurcan Çakir.
They broke the deadlock when Demiral turned the ball past his own keeper trying to cut out Domenico Berardi’s second-half cross before Lazio’s Immobile, playing on his home ground, pounced after Leonardo Spinazzola’s shot was blocked by the keeper.
Italy wrapped up a satisfying win though Insigne’s powerful finish, after he was teed up by the impressive Immobile.
There were shades of Italia 90 when Italian opera tenor Andrea Bocelli sang Nessun Dorma live inside the Stadio Olimpico against the backdrop of a breathtaking firework display as part of a colourful opening ceremony before the match, the first of 51 games to be played in 11 European cities over the next month.  Euro 2020 opened in spectacular fashion as Italy got their campaign off to an impressive start in front of their own fans with a comfortable victory against Turkey. In the first game of the rescheduled tournament, played at at Rome's Stadio Olimpico, an own goal by Merih Demiral and… June 11, 2021 In "Sports" Turkey coach Senol Gunes will be looking to repeat the success of his 2002 World Cup campaign, in which he led the team to an unexpected third-place finish, when they play at Euro 2020. Led by influential captain Burak Yilmaz, who is having a brilliant season at Lille, Turkey… May 24, 2021 In "Sports" Italy warmed up for the European Championship in style with a 7-0 thrashing of San Marino in a friendly on Friday. Roberto Mancini's side struggled to break down the minnows early on in Sardinia, but captain Federico Bernardeschi hammered them into a 31st minute lead before Sassuolo defender Gian… May 29, 2021 In "Sports"