 Clement James, Calabar The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP)
in Cross River State has raised the alarm that its members in the House of Assembly and Councilors have not been paid their allowances because they refused to decamp to the All Progressives Congress (APC).
The Caretaker Committee Chairman of the party in the state, Mr. Efiok Cobham raised the alarm at the weekend in Calabar while speaking to journalists on the development.
According to Cobham, salaries and allowances due their members at the House of Assembly and councilors have been withheld for not defecting to the APC with the governor.
Cobham, the former Deputy Governor during Sen Liyel Imoke’s administration, said the salaries have not only been seized, but entitlements of their seven members’ have been shared among the APC lawmakers.
He said it was a worrisome development: “Because salaries and allowances are their legitimate earnings that have nothing to do with party,” adding “such act is an illegality that will not go unchallenged legally in the state.”
A source at the Assembly Complex in Calabar disclosed that the total amount due the members is about N11 million, which includes their allowances of N1.5 million each and N200, 000 each for their legislative aides.
The affected lawmakers are:  Rt.Hons Fred Osim (Ikom I), Okpechi Gabreil (Obubra I), Nelson Ofem (Yakurr I), Elizabeth Ironbar (Akpabuyo), Efa Esua (Municipality) and Itam Abang (Boki I).
The source hinted that the Speaker has dissolved all the House Committees in line with the House Rules at the end of every legislative session, but expressed worry that with the new development, it is possible that none of the seven legislators would be allowed to head sensitive committees.
However, the Speaker, Rt Hon Jones William Eteng, in a chat said he is not aware that some members’ allowances had been seized, adding that all salaries due them have been paid till date.  The immediate past speaker of the House of Representatives, Rt. Hon. Yakubu Dogara, has explained why he dumped the opposition Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) for the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC).   The former Speaker questioned the payment of N4.6 billion loan taken from a bank and paid directly into… July 27, 2020 In "News" For arbitrarily slashing their salaries and allowances while those of their colleagues in the ruling party were raised, seven lawmakers elected on the platform of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) on Wednesday and Thursday shunned plenaries at the Imo State House of Assembly over alleged lopsidedness in payment of their… November 26, 2020 In "Politics" Cross River PDP: What next after Ayade?   CLEMENT JAMES reports on the political intrigues that culminated in last week’s defection of the governor of Cross River State, Prof. Ben Ayade, from the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) to the All Progressives Congress (APC)   There is no doubt that Governor… May 24, 2021 In "Politics"