…confers ‘Friend of the Church’ award on Yahaya Bello Regina Otokpa, Abuja The Christian Association of Nigeria (CAN), has called on state governors to undertake a fair and balanced approach in governing religious affairs in their respective states.
President of CAN, Rev Samson Ayokunle, made the call while dedicating the Kogi State Government House chapel and conferment of “Friend of the Church” award on the state Governor, Yahaya Bello, in recognition of his stand on equity and fair treatment meted on Christians in the state and his friendliness to the religion.
Ayokunle, who urged other state governors to emulate the Kogi State governor’s approach which according him has guaranteed peace in the state and for his government, said only leaders who have the spirit of God  could take the bold step to build a house for God
He said: “In the atmosphere of justice and mutual respect prosperity would be guaranteed  and the country bring a plural nation, it is our duty that while practicing democracy we apply apply native sense taking into cognizance our plurality.”
In his response, Yahaya Bello noted that he could not understand the dynamics behind why previous administration refused to build a befitting worship center for Christians within the premises of the Government House, noting that because of the plural nature of the state such action was wrong.
Bello, who was represented by his deputy, Edward Onoja, said it was quite surprising that those who belonged to a much more enlightened generation have decided to politicize issues of religion.
He said such parochial thinking was antithetical to the stride of any generation or society to make any progress.  ...says time for politics is over   In what appears to be the making of a convinant in the presence of God, Governor Yahaya Bello of Kogi State has promised to prove nay sayers wrong with massive development and infrastructure after the completion of his eight years tenure as governor.… September 6, 2020 In "Metro & Crime" In what appeared to be a covenant made in the presence of God yesterday, Kogi State Governor, Yahaya Bello, promised to prove naysayers wrong with massive development and infrastructure after the completion of his eight years tenure as governor.   The governor, who made this promise at the Christ the… September 7, 2020 In "News" Felix Nwaneri reports on the next political move by the man, who many have described as the enfant terrible of Kogi politics, Governor Yahaya Bello   Kogi State governor, Yahaya Bello, is one public office holder, who does not shy away from controversy. Sometimes, he courts it and gives no… March 15, 2021 In "Politics"