Afenifere, the pan Yoruba Socio-political group has appointed Chief Ayo Adebanjo as Acting Leader following stepping aside of its leader,Chief Reuben Fasoranti. Fasoranti, who named Adebanjo as his successor also named Oba Oladipo Olaitan, the Alaago of Kajola Ago in Atakunmosa East Local Government Area of Osun State as the Deputy Leader of the group. Fasoranti at a meeting held yesterday at his house, said he could not lead Yoruba struggle because of his old age. He is 95 years old. At a meeting attended by immediate past governor of Ondo State, Dr. Olusegun Mimiko, Dr Kunle Olajide, Senator Iyiola Omisoore, Basorun Seinde Arogbofa, Chiefs Kole Omololu, Femi Aluko and Korede Duyile, Fasoranti said the Yoruba race needed an agile person to lead because of the crisis bedeviling the country. In his speech, Fasoranti said since 2008 when he took over as the leader, Afenifere had faced massive unrest launched against the Yoruba people by those who sought to emasculate it by using all manner of negativity and influence. He said: “The governments at home that have fearfully expanded the economic and social strangulation of our land through the invasion of murderous herders who destroy our farms, rape and kill our people both as an economic and political instrument of subjugation. “The stubborn determination by a section of the North in power to continue running Nigeria through a defective structural arrangement manipulated and dominated by the North to the disadvantage of the South through a fraudulent and unacceptable constitution. “Afenifere now needs more than ever before to have an improved organization with a more effective approach to issues. “Only a more agile and active leadership can achieve this. At 95 I am hardly able to provide such and so it is time for me to step aside.”   To ensure the security of lives and property in the South-West and also improve the economic base of the region, eminent Yoruba leaders yesterday said the zone will converge on Ibadan, the Oyo State capital for a non-partisan South-West Security Stakeholders Group meeting on March 17. The leaders, Chief Ayo… March 6, 2021 In "News" Some eminent South- West leaders under the aegis of Yoruba Summit Group yesterday warned that they may mobilise the Yoruba nation against the 2023 elections if the current government failed to restructure the country before the election year. That was just as members of the group urged President Muhammadu Buhari… July 24, 2020 In "News" ... Obasanjo, Akeredolu, others hails elder statesman at 94. The leader of the pan Yoruba socio-cultura group, Afenifere, Pa Rueben Fasoranti Friday expressed concern over the series of challenges facing Nigeria. Fasoranti disclosed this when hundreds of well-wishers thronged Akure, the Ondo State capital, to celebrate him on his 94th… September 25, 2020 In "News"