The Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) has announced an extension, by 12 months, of the regulatory forbearance it approved for the restructuring of credit facilities of banks and Other Financial Institutions (OFIs) due to the COVID-19 crisis.
It has also approved the extension by another 12 months, to February 28, 2022, for the reduction in interest rate for its intervention facilities. As part of measures to mitigate the impact of the Coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic on the nation’s economy, the CBN reduced the interest rate on its intervention facilities from 9 per cent to 5 per cent per annum for one year, effec-tive March 1, 2020. In addition, for credit facilities disbursed through participating banks and OFIs, the regulator also granted a one-year moratorium on all principal payments with effect from March 1, 2020. However, following the expiration of the timelines, the apex bank, in a circular to banks and OFIs posted on its website yesterday, announced that it had approved the extension by another 12 months to February 28, 2022 for the reduction in interest rate for its intervention facilities. It also stated that the roll-over of the moratorium on the facilities will be “considered on a case by case basis.” In his personal statement at the January meeting of the CBN’s Monetary Policy Committee (MPC) meeting, Deputy Governor in charge of Economic Policy at the apex bank, Dr. Kingsley Obiora, had said that although the Non- Performing Loans (NPLs) ratio in the country is currently only slightly above the CBN’s benchmark of +5%, he was in support of extending the regulatory forbearance for restructuring of credit facilities by an additional 12 months.  The Bank of Industry (BOI) is reviewing its strategic priorities to ensure continuous support for enterprises, especially those hard hit by the COVID-19. Specifically, it is deepening penetration in agro-processing, food processing, technology, healthcare and pharmaceuticals to stimulate economic recovery and growth. The bank’s Managing Director, Mr. Kayode Pitan, who… July 16, 2020 In "Business" Many economies, including Nigeria, are billed to experience recession post-COVID-19. To shield the economy against recession, Nigerian government is deploying combination of monetary and fiscal stimulus packages to hold it firm, ABDULWAHAB ISA reports Unless it achieved a strong growth by third quarter of 2020, there are apparent indications of… August 20, 2020 In "Business" Last week’s announcement by the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN), that it had introduced special bills to the financial system, is yet another policy measure by the apex bank to ensure financial stability and economic growth in the country, writes TONY CHUKWUNYEM The slump in the price of oil (the… December 9, 2020 In "Business"