 Akeem Nafiu A United Kingdom High Court of Justice Tuesday registered the N500 million damages entered in favour of Mountain of Fire and Miracles Ministries (MFM) and its General Overseer, Dr. Daniel Olukoya, by an Ogun State High Court against a UK-based blogger, Maureen Badejo.
By this development, the judgement of the Ogun State High Court has thus become, for all intents and purposes, the judgement of the Queens Bench Division and will soon be executed on the judgment-debtor, Maureen Badejo, in that country.
Justice Abiodun Akinyemi of a High Court in Ogun State had on February 9, 2021 awarded N500 million damages in favour of MFM and Olukoya against  Badejo, the proprietor of Gio TV, for aggravated libel.
Besides, the judge also ordered the blogger to tender a written apology and retraction of the offending publications prominently on social media and at least three national dailies.
“Watching and listening to the broadcasts when demonstrated in open court, I was taken aback at the reckless and defiant attitude of the defendant.
“What was more, it was a phone-in programme in which the defendant even granted audience to the public to make contributions on the information provided by her concerning the claimants.
“I cannot imagine a worse case of reckless defamation or evil use of the internet and social media. Considering the totality of the circumstances of this case, and in particular the conduct of the defendant, I am of the view that the claimants deserve to be substantially compensated in aggravated and exemplary damages,” Justice Akinyemi held.
It would be recalled that the claimants (MFM and Olukoya) had filed a suit before the court on September 7, 2020, seeking ₦10 billion compensation for aggravated and exemplary damages of Badejo’s alleged misuse of the social media.  A High Court sitting in Benin, Edo State capital, yesterday declined hearing in a case of alleged defamation of character instituted by former All Progressives Congress (APC) governorship candidate in the state, Pastor Osagie Ize-Iyamu against Rital Ebuwa, chieftain of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) for outright breach of COVID-19… February 19, 2021 In "News" A Lagos-based lawyer, Olukoya Ogungbeje, has asked Justice Mohammed Liman of a Federal High Court in Lagos to reverse the ban imposed on the operations of commercial tricycles and motorcycles, commonly known as okada, in parts of Lagos by the state government.   The Lagos State Government, Lagos State Task… June 28, 2020 In "Metro & Crime" GROUNDS The SPDC alleged that its application to join the Minister of Petroleum Resources to the suit as a necessary party for a just determination of the   issues was denied by the judge   A Rivers State High Court has affirmed the enforcement of the sale of interests in… August 18, 2020 In "Business"