 Musa Pam, Jos The All Progressives Congress (APC) Caretaker Committees in Pankshin, Kanke and Kanam local government areas of Plateau State have endorsed the Member of the House of Representatives  Representing Pankshin/Kanke/ Kanam Federal Constituency in the National Assembly Rt. Hon. Yusuf Adamu Gagdi for re-election in 2023, saying the lawmaker has perfomed credible well.
The APC officials gave the endorsement when the lawmaker imspected ongoing constituency projects and held an interaction  with the Wards and LGC Excos of the party at the weekend and presented his scorecard of representation at the National Assembly from 2019 to date.
The Chairman of APC of Kanam Local Government Area Hon. Nuhu Gamabari while welcoming Hon. Yusuf Gagdi in Dengi, said the lawmaker has kept in touch with the grassroots since he was elected and the APC has unanimously agreed and adopted him for reelection in 2023 to represent them again.
“We are proud of Hon. Yusuf Adamu Gagdi since we elected him to represent us at the National Assembly, he has been doing very, keeping in touch always providing dividends of democracy to his people, we have seen projects in our communities, employment and empowerment to our youths and women and the APC leadership in Kanam, Kanke and Pankshin have unanimously agreed and adopted him for reelection in 2023 to represent us again,” he said.
Speaking with journalists later, Gagdi
said his focus, zeal and desire is to give back to the people who elected him to represent them at the National Assembly.
The lawmaker said he was on inspection of capital projects in his constituency and also use the opportunity to interact with his constituents to inform them of what he has been doing in Abuja.
“There is nothing as important as the spirit of getting back to the people who elected you to represent them at the National Assembly and I have pledge to be serving the people of PKK Federal Constituency in the National Assembly,” he said.  Chairman House of Representatives Committee on Navy and Member Representing Pankshin, Kanke and Kanam Federal Constituency, Hon. Yusuf Gagdi has donated 2,600 bags of rice and 21 cows to his constituents for the celebration of Christmas.   Gagdi, who presented the items on Wednesday in Jos, said that the gesture… December 23, 2020 In "Metro & Crime" The House of Representatives has commended President Muhammadu Buhari for assenting to the Nigeria Police Act, 2020 Sponsor of the bill and chairman of the House of Representatives committee on Navy, Yusuf Gadgi, who gave the commendation, said the Act will no doubt promote intense security in states across the… September 19, 2020 In "News" University lecturers, under their umbrella group, the Academic Staff Union of Universities (ASUU) have advocated an improved welfare package for journalists in the country.   The Chairman of ASUU chapter of the University of Jos (UNIJOS), Dr. Lazarus Maigoro, made the call at the maiden or… November 10, 2020 In "Education"