 Patrick Bamford hopes he can play himself into England’s Euro 2020 squad after scoring one and setting up the other as Leeds beat Fulham.
The game came the day after Bamford was left out of Gareth Southgate’s squad for the first World Cup qualifiers, reports the BBC.
Fulham, meanwhile, missed the chance to move out of the Premier League relegation zone with a third defeat in four games.
Leeds had two goals disallowed in the first half – first when Luke Ayling’s header was ruled out by the video assistant referee and then when Raphinha was well offside before slotting home.
They led when Bamford smashed home at the near post from Jack Harrison’s cross.
Fulham were level when defender Joachim Andersen volleyed in from Ademola Lookman’s corner, his first goal in English football.
But Leeds scored the winner just before the hour mark, as Bamford fed Raphinha, who beat two defenders before poking home.
“I just need to keep working and see if I can get my name in contention for the Euros,” Bamford told Sky Sports. “If I keep going as I am I think I’m in with a shot. If you told me at the start of the season I’d be linked with England, I’d say you were bonkers.
“If it comes, it comes. If not, I’ll know I’ve done my best. It was in the back of my mind a little bit I guess. It gives you a bit of an extra fire in your belly.”
The result takes Marcelo Bielsa’s Leeds up to 11th in the table on 39 points.
RESULT
Fulham 1 – 2 Leeds  Patrick Bamford scored his 13th goal of the season to help Leeds end a run of back-to-back defeats to extend Southampton's own winless run to a far more worrying eight matches. The striker struck early in the second half, timing his run to perfection to beat offside and latch… February 23, 2021 In "Sports" Patrick Bamford scored his 13th goal of the season to help Leeds end a run of back-to-back defeats to extend Southampton's own winless run to a far more worrying eight matches. The striker struck early in the second half, timing his run to perfection to beat offside and latch… February 24, 2021 In "Sports" Arsenal forward Nicolas Pepe was sent off for a headbutt as Leeds' wasteful finishing cost them a Premier League victory. Marcelo Bielsa's Leeds squandered a host of chances, both before and after Pepe was dismissed after video assistant referee consultation for sticking his head into Ezgjan Alioski's face. Substitute… November 22, 2020 In "Sports"