Barely four days after Boko Haram attack on Dikwa Town of Dikwa Local Government Area of the state, the Borno State Governor, Prof. Babagana Zulum, yesterday paid a sympathy and resilience building visit to the area, with a call on them not to leave their ancestral homes and be resilient. The governor, who performed the Jumaat (Friday Prayers) in Dikwa, urged the residents to be resilient as Maiduguri cannot accommodate over 5,000 people from Dijwa alone talk less of Gubio, Monguno, Damasak among others towns. While addressing the residents of the area at the Dikwa Central Mosques, shortly after the prayers and Dikwa Motor Park separately, Zulum said: “Dikwa is your ancestral home; you should not allow anybody to send you packing. “It is surprising that over 5,000 people, only 20 people with six gun trucks can chase you away from your ancestral home. “Dikwa is a big town, if you leave, Maiduguri will not accommodate you, so you should stand up and defend your communities. “You have over 300 members of the CJTF in this town but they are all useless, as they can’t defend your people.”  ...abducts four aid workers●Troops repel terrorists’ invasion, says Army Boko Haram members seized Dikwa, the headquarters of Dikwa Local Government Area in Borno State for more than 12 hours before they voluntarily withdrew. This came less than a day after Governor Babagana Zulum left Dikwa town. But the Army said… March 3, 2021 In "Metro & Crime" The Chief of Army Staff (COSS), Major- General Ibrahim Attahiru, yesterday said he has given troops of Operations Lafiya Dole a 48-hour ultimatum to clear Matte, Kirenows, Kirts, Wulgo, Chikingudo areas of Marte, Ngsla Local Government Areas of Borno State of Boko Haram insurgents.   General Ibrahim Attahiru who gave… February 22, 2021 In "News" ...debunks attack on UN base   Emmanuel Onani, Abuja   The Army has said that attempts by suspected terrorist elements to invade Dikwa town in Dikwa Local Government Area of Borno State, were resisted by troops, who 'ousted' the fighters. Director of Army Public Relations (DAPR), Brig-Gen. Mohammed Yerima, who… March 2, 2021 In "News"