Following the mixed reaction trailing the suspension of AstraZeneca COVID-19 vaccines in some European countries, the National Primary Health Care Development Agency (NPHCDA), has said the restart of the vaccines by same countries was a reassurance of its safety. Executive Director of the NPHCDA Dr. Faisal Shuaib in a statement on Friday in Abuja, further noted that a report by the European Medical Agency (EMA), has clarified that the AstraZeneca vaccine was not in any way associated with the alleged blood clots which led to suspension of the vaccine by some countries. The statement, which was made available to newsmen by the Head, Public Relations Unit of the Agency, Mohammad Ohitoto, also stated that France’s Prime Minister Jean Castex and UK’s Prime Minister, Boris Johnson, both announced they would receive the AstraZeneca vaccine today (Friday). Shuaib said regulators and vaccine safety experts have a duty to investigate if an adverse effect was detected, in order to determine whether it was caused by the vaccine or not. It reads: “The European Medical Agency (EMA) released the findings of its report examining cases of blood clotting, it determined that the AstraZeneca vaccine is not associated with higher risk of blood clots. “Following a thorough and scientific investigation, the EMA reaffirmed the vaccine is safe and effective. “Countries across Europe including Germany, France and Spain are today resuming administering the AstraZeneca vaccine.   ...says 17m doses administered in over 70 countries The Minister of Health, Dr. Osagie Ehanire, has said the AstraZeneca COVID-19 vaccine was the best in protecting Nigerians from getting infected with coronavirus. Ehanire, who spoke at the sensitisation meeting of Muslim scholars and Imams on COVID-19 vaccine rollout on Friday… March 19, 2021 In "News" Appolonia Adeyemi   Against the background that several European nations have suspended the use of Oxford-AstraZeneca vaccine following reports of blood clot incidents, the National Primary Health Care Development Agency (NPHCDA) has clarified that no such reactions have been reported from administering the vaccine in Nigeria. The Agency, which is… March 11, 2021 In "News" Lagos State Governor, Mr Babajide Sanwo- Olu, his deputy, Dr Obafemi Hamzat, health workers and some journalists yesterday took the first injection of the Astra Zeneca COVID-19 vaccines. Sanwo-Olu took the injection at 3:03pm while Hamzat was injected about 3:10pm at the Infectious Disease Hospital (IDH), Yaba. Speaking after taking… March 13, 2021 In "News"