Seun Ogunsakin 14, ‘stole the show” at the grand finale of the 2021 CBN Junior Tennis Championship when he won the boys’ 16 and boys’ 14 titles in one day, with a full display of his prodigious talent.  Ogunsakin, popularly called ‘Nadal’ by his ever increasing fan base because he has the same skill sets and mannerisms of the clay court king and former world number one, demolished Joshua Maxwell 9 – 0 in the boys 16 and drawing from the confidence gained from that victory, ran over Mubarak Ganiyu 9 – 2 in the boys 14 final which was the star match. “To put it in context”, said Godwin Kienka, Director of the International Tennis Academy, organisers of the championship, “Maxwell was runner -up last year to David Ekpeyong who has now been promoted out of the juniors.  So it was not that the standard was lower but that Seun is improving exponentially. “Itisthesame ‘play up’ strategythatledtoour teenage girls sweeping all the titles and runnersup positions at the last CBN Senior Championship in Abuja last year.”  Kienka added. Ogunsakin, along with the prizes of racket, bag and shoes he got, won an education grant of N100, 000 which is a standing reward by the ITA to any player who wins his age group and a higher one in the same competition.  There is also a standing reward of N500, 000 for any player who wins the CBN Junior 16s title and the CBN Senior singles title in the same year.   Seun Ogunsakin and Mubarak Ganiyu, the top seeds in the boys' 14 took off in the CBN junior meet with emphatic wins against their opponents in the first round robin matches played Tuesday. Ogunsakin, defending champion in the category defeated Ajao Idris from Lagos 9-1 while Ganiyu who is expected… March 25, 2021 In "Sports" Seun Ogunsakin from Ekiti State and Mohammed Idris from the FCT won their respective round robin groups in the on-going CBN Junior Tennis Championship to stay on course for an expected mouth-watering showdown in the finals. Ogunsakin and Idris had moved up form the boys 12 category and are expected… October 10, 2020 In "Sports" The weeklong CBN Junior Tennis Championship, the first national sports competition post COVID-19 lockdown, ended in Lagos Sunday with the Ogunsakin brothers from Ekiti, Seun and Seyi, winning the Boys 14 and 12 titles respectively.   Seun defeated Mohammed Idris from Abuja who was partially handicapped by an aching shoulder… October 13, 2020 In "Sports"