Governors of the South-South States demanded an upward review of the provision of 2.5 per cent as Host Community Trust Fund in the Petroleum Industry Bill (PIB) to 10 per cent in the best interest of oil communities and the nation. The governors have also advised President Mohammadu Buhari that in the absence of the board of the Niger Delta Development Commission (NDDC), funds for the commission beyond the payment of salaries should be put in an escrow account until he constitutes the board. Chairman of the South-South Governors Forum and Governor of Delta State,  Senator Ifeanyi Okowa made this assertion at the end of the forum’s meeting which held at the Government House, Port Harcourt has said. Present at the meeting were Governor of Rivers State, Nyesom Ezenwo Wike; the Governor of Edo State, Godwin Obaseki; Governor of Bayelsa State, Senator Douye Diri and the Deputy Governor of Akwa- Ibom State, Mr. Moses Ekpo, who represented Governor Udom Emmanuel.  Okowa said: “We took up the issue of the PIB, the Petroleum Industry Bill which is already before the House and having compared notes with ourselves, we are of the view that while we welcome the Host Community Trust Fund, we do believe that the 2.5 per cent that is appropriated in that bill for the purpose of host community fund is inadequate.  “We have discussed with our people and collectively as leaders of the people in our various States and as leaders standing in on behalf of our people, we urge that the National Assembly should increase the provision in the host community fund from 2.5 percent to 10 percent in the best interest of our communities, in the best interest of our nation.”  The governors maintained that the communities have a role to play in the surveillance of the nation’s oil facilities and pipeline network, as they expressed the belief that if the communities feel satisfied with provision of funds for them in the PIB, they are more likely going to be watchdog on behalf of the federal government, the States and oil companies.  “And the peaceful environment that would be seen in the various oil communities would enable us to have greater production and a seamless production in which we do not have any form disruption in our oil productions going into the future.”  Governor Okowa described as worrisome the running of the NDDC in over a year by an Interim Caretaker Committee, and now, an interim administrator. According to him, this situation does not augur well for the people of the Niger Delta as opportunity for all States to be represented as they ought to be represented in the board of the NDDC does not exist “  So, it means that the NDDC is actually run in such a matter that it is actually not truly beneficial to our people, because there is no stakeholders input in the running of the affairs of the NDDC.  “We do know that there is a forensic audit taking place and if that reason the board has not been constituted, our advice is that monies being sent to the NDDC should be put in an escrow account until a board is constituted and then proper processes are followed in the expenditure of the money in a such a way it will be visibly accountable in the best interest of the peoples of the Niger Delta.”  The governors demanded that whenever the board of the NDDC is constituted, the advisory council must be called upon to play its role to ensure there is check and balance in such a matter that the States will truly have value for money expended by the NDDC.  Governors of the oil-rich South- South states have demanded an upward review of the provision of 2.5 per cent as Host Community Trust Fund in the Petroleum Industry Bill (PIB) to 10 per cent in the best interest of oil communities and the nation.   The governors also… March 10, 2021 In "News" Delta State Governor, Dr. Ifeanyi Okowa, has urged oil producing communities in the state to clamour for full control of derivation funds, instead of the meagre 13 per cent that is being shared to Niger Delta states.   The Chief Press Secretary to the Governor, Mr Olisa Ifeajika, said the… November 23, 2020 In "News" A socio-political group in the Niger Delta region, the Eket Peoples Union (EPU), is seeking the establishment of the Akwa Ibom State Oil Producing Development Commission (AKOPADEC) to manage the 13% oil derivation funds. The EPU said the setting up of such a Commission had become necessary following allegations by… November 10, 2020 In "News"