Sterling Bank Plc. has added rotation savings and peerto- peer lending feature to the available options on OneBank, its digital banking platform.  The new feature, known as Ajo Scheme, is the digital construct of  Ajo, Esusu and Adashe, the oldest informal means of collecting and saving money through a savings club or partnership for big-ticket transactions such as a downpayment on a house, car, gadgets, school fees, overseas’ trips.  The Ajo Scheme will allow members that are OneBank users to make an agreed monthly contribution with funds accessed on an agreed rotating basis. Group Head, Digital Banking of Sterling Bank, Oladipo Alabede, disclosed this in a statement. He explained that the Ajo Scheme could be initiated by an interested customer who will invite family and friends to join the scheme.  However, all participants must be registered users on One- Bank and must accept the invitation request. He said there is also an allowance for participants to switch collection positions after being accepted to be part of the scheme.  Oladipo said that debiting participants’ accounts and remittance to beneficiaries is automated, adding that the process runs daily and will debit participants on the day he/ she has selected.  He said where the account is not funded, the process is repeated for the entire day selected by the participant. If the contribution still fails to come in, the scheme continues as it is.  The benefactor for that cycle will get only the contributions that came in for that month. Oladipo noted that disputes relating to unfunded accounts will not be handled by the bank, saying that participants would have to sort out the dispute outside the App.  According to him, someone can be added without his/her knowledge if the creator knows the email address. Still, such an added person will have to accept before he can become a valid participant.  The Group Head of Digital Banking said once the Ajo Scheme starts; it cannot be dissolved until its cycle is completed. He added that there are terms and conditions of the Ajo Scheme that participating members should accept and that the bank will not guarantee payments.  I often wonder about the wind of change that is sweeping across the Nigerian banking industry these days, especially the deployment of mobile telephony for seamless and convenient banking. Indeed, gone are the days when one must visit a bank physically to carry out all forms of financial transactions.  … November 3, 2020 In "Opinion" In this interview, Mr. Abubakar Suleiman, Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer of Sterling Bank Plc, speaks on banking regulations, COVID-19 crisis, health of Nigeria’s banking sector and OneBank, his organization’s new digital bank.     What is your assessment of banking regulations in Nigeria and the health of the… June 29, 2020 In "Business" The Managing Director, Jaiz Bank Plc, Hassan Usman, has said that the bank’s e-channels and technology are sufficient enough to capture all intending pilgrims to Hajj under the new savings scheme.   Speaking at the launch and sensitisation of the Hajj Savings scheme in Lokoja, Kogi State, Hassan said the… December 7, 2020 In "Business"