The Vice President, Professor Yemi Osinbajo and Governor of the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN), Mr. Godwin Emefiele, are among eminent personalities that will be participating in the inaugural edition of Fidelity Bank Plc’s diasporawebinarseries, thelender announced yesterday. According to a statement, the event which commences today, Saturday, March 06, by 2pm, seeks to enlighten Nigerian citizens’ resident abroad on recent policy measures by the CBN and their attendant implications for diaspora investments. Themed, “The New CBN FX Policy and Positive Impact To Diaspora Investments in Nigeria”, the session will also aim specifically at providing them with valuable insights, intelligence, and expertise on how to stay on top of their investments back home. Other speakers and panelists at the session include Professor, Benedict Okey Oramah, Chairman/President ofAfrican Export-Import Bank, Abike Dabiri-Erewa, Chairman/CEO, Nigerians in Diaspora Commission( NIDCOM), Prof. Ndubuisi Ekekwe, Lead Faculty, Tekedia Institute and Professor Olawale Sulaiman, renowned Neurosurgeon and Chairman of RNZ Global among others.  Nigeria accounts for a substantial portion of migrant’s remittance flows to Sub-Saharan Africa. Alternatively, known Diaspora funds remittance, these funds by Nigerians living and working overseas play an important role in development of Nigeria economy.   At the level of an individual, the person who receives fund cash in Nigeria… December 27, 2020 In "Business" Emefiele: It’ll satisfy dollar needs of banks The Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) said Nigeria's economy, especially the banking sector, stands to reap bountifully from the gains of new diaspora remittances policy which kicks off today. CBN governor, Mr. Godwin Emefiele, who stated this yesterday in Abuja while addressing media… December 4, 2020 In "Business" Even before the onset of the COVID-19 crisis, the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN), under the leadership of its current Governor, Mr. Godwin Emefiele, had consistently emphasised that export diversification was key to ensuring sustainable economic growth, writes TONY CHUKWUNYEM Nigeria might have exited recession in Q4’20 with Gross Domestic… March 3, 2021 In "Business"