 Liverpool gave their flagging season a timely boost by beating RB Leipzig to reach the Champions League quarter-finals.
The English champions have seen their hopes of retaining the league title they won last June all but ended by a shocking run of recent domestic form, which includes defeat in each of their last six games at Anfield, reports the BBC.
But their quest for a second European crown in three seasons remains very much alive thanks to a more confident and composed display in what was technically a home fixture but played at the same venue as the first leg – Budapest’s Puskas Arena.
For 70 minutes, Liverpool were extremely wasteful in front of goal, but sealed the tie when Mohamed Salah cut inside and finished low shortly after Leipzig substitute Alexander Sorloth had struck the bar with a header.
Sadio Mane made absolutely sure with a neat finish from Divock Origi’s superb cross.
Jurgen Klopp’s side will find out their last-eight opponents when the draw is made on Friday, 19 March.
And in Paris, PSG held Barcelona to a 1-1 draw to knock the Spanish side out of the competition on a 5-2 aggregate having won the first leg 4-1.
RESULTS
Liverpool 2 – 0 RB Leipzig
(Agg 4-0)
PSG 1 – 1 Barcelona
(Agg 5-2)  Liverpool will face last season's semi-finalists RB Leipzig in the last 16 of the Champions League, while Chelsea come up against Atletico Madrid. Manchester City will face Borussia Monchengladbach, who are in the last 16 for the first time since 1978. Holders Bayern Munich face Italian side Lazio, who are… December 14, 2020 In "News" Cristiano Ronaldo scored two penalties to take his Champions League goal tally to 134 as Juventus beat Barcelona to seal top spot in Group G. Ronaldo sent Marc-Andre ter Stegen the wrong way after being fouled by Uruguay defender Ronald Araujo. Juve doubled their lead through Weston McKennie's bicycle… December 8, 2020 In "Sports" ...as Salah, Mane goals see Liverpool take control of Leipzig tie Kylian Mbappe scored a stunning hat-trick as Paris St-Germain ripped Barcelona apart in the first leg of their Champions League last-16 tie at the Nou Camp. The night did not start well for last year's runners-up when they fell… February 17, 2021 In "Sports"