The Minister of Transport, Mr. Chibuike Ameachi, yesterday, traced the compounded problems of Nigeria to abject poverty and inequality in the system. Amaechi stated this while delivering a lecture at the 34th Convocation Lecture of the University of Calabar, where he featured as guest lecturer. He stressed that the country must conquer poverty and inequality, if she must effectively tackle the worsening multifarious socio-economic challenges menacing the citizenry. Speaking on the theme: ‘The National Question and the Challenges of Nationhood in Nigeria,’ the minister cautioned that if nothing was done to address the situation, time would come when the poor would overrun the country. He, however, said that the present administration had identified this threat and was committed to lifting millions of Nigerians out of poverty. “Of all the challenges facing our nation, none is more urgent than the scourge of poverty and massive inequality. We must attack and conquer inequality or the poor will overrun Nigeria. “Nearly all the troubles that confront us as a nation today can be directly traced to poverty. The Buhari administration has identified poverty as one of the major impediments of national development and is committed to lifting millions of people out of poverty,” he said. On the national question, he said that Nigerians must seek common grounds on broad national issues on bipartisan basis rather than on the basis of personalities. On the transport sector, he said that the government was embarking on the most expansive and ambitious railway program in the history of Nigeria, assuring that the programme would get to Calabar in a few months. “We are embarking on the most ambitions and expansive railway rehabilitation programme in the history of Nigeria. The president inherited a contract of 11 billion dollars to construct a railway from Lagos to terminate in Calabar.”Just wait, before the end of the year, you will see contractors and as you are waiting in the next few months you will see us sign a loan agreement for the project. “We are also renewing the Lord Lugard era standard railway line that has been out of effective service for decades and transforming it to standard gauge.   How can we use poverty and inequality gaps to understand issues of governance and insecurity and evolving social problems in Nigeria? In this piece, I attempt to show why it is important to reduce poverty and unemployment rates as well inequality in Nigeria and the consequences of widening inequality in… November 16, 2020 In "Back Page Columnist" Nigerian Economic Summit Group (NESG) in conjunction with the World Bank, for the umpteenth time, last week, raised the poverty red flag in Nigeria. They forecast that an additional 20 million Nigerians may slide into poverty by 2022. Abdulwahab Isa, in this report, outlines new measures to hedge rising poverty… February 11, 2021 In "Business" The Director General of Voice of Nigeria and chieftain of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Osita Okechukwu has put the blame of the present insecurity in the country on the extreme poverty caused by the IMF Structural Adjustment Programme (SAP) introduced by Gen. Ibrahim Babangida's government in 1986. Okechukwu, who… February 28, 2021 In "News"