 In preparation to fully transit Lagos from analogue to digital terrestrial broadcasting on April 29, the acting Director-General of the National Broadcasting Commission, Prof. Armstrong Idachaba has commended ITS Ltd and their partners, StarTimes, for putting in place the required transmitters.
Speaking after an inspection tour of digital transmitters at NTA Station, Channel 10, Tejuosho, Lagos on Friday, Idachaba said that the country hopes to have completed the digital rollout by 2022.
He said: “Nigeria has taken a decision that we are continuing with the transition from analogue to digital broadcasting. The journey practically began in 2016 with the pilot rollout in Jos. And a few years after, we have gone into phase two. Under phase two, Lagos, Port Harcourt and other cities will be switched on to digital TV. We are going to many other cities and following the rollout time table, we hope that by the end of 2022, we would have completed the digital rollout in Nigeria.
“This visit to the NTA premises in Tejuosho is in furtherance of this objective. We are glad that ITS Ltd has already installed DVB2 technology. We have seen that the installed capacity for DTT transmission is very high. I acknowledge the role of their partners, StarTimes and I think that between NTA and StarTimes, there is a great combined effort to ensure that the rollout happens in Lagos and other cities in Nigeria quickly.
“This inspection is reassuring. It means that we have the technical and infrastructural capabilities and are ready to kick off in Lagos on April 29.”
Also speaking, Alex Jian, acting CEO, NTA-Star TV Network, said the company’s technical team is ready to support the nation in transiting fully to digital TV.
“The NBC DG has a big strategy for DSO and NTA-StarTimes will cooperate very well with ITS Ltd to support this project.  Our technical team is ready. We have already prepared ourselves for this switch over all over the country.”  Effective from December 8, 2022, analogue television transmission services in Nigeria would come to an end. Before then, the country would kick start digital switch over (DSO) roll out in three "heavilypopulated states" of Lagos, Kano and Rivers. While the roll out in Lagos would commence on April 29, Kano… March 12, 2021 In "News" ●FG to fast-track project The country’s belaboured moves to switch over to digital broadcasting is set to be enlivened as the Federal Government plans to inject N15 billion into the project in the next 12 months. This was part of government’s Economic Sustainability Plan (ESP) released recently to tackle the… June 25, 2020 In "Business" ...to create 2m jobs by 2023 The Federal Government is targeting the sum of $1.1 billion from sale of television licences, Digital Access Fees and spectrum that would be vacated once analogue to digital migration has been completed. Briefing newsmen yesterday after the virtual Federal Executive Council (FEC) meeting chaired… July 2, 2020 In "News"