 Mama Sarah Onyango Obama, the grandmother of former US President Barrack Obama, is dead.
According to ‘Nairobi News’, her demise was confirmed by her daughter, Marsat Obama, who said her mother died at the Jaramogi Oginga Odinga Teaching and Referral Hospital, Kisumu at 4.45am on Monday.
She had been admitted to the hospital on Sunday morning.
The family is making arrangements to have her buried today (Monday) at the Muslim Cemetery in Kisumu.
“We are trying to see whether we shall be able to bury her today and if not, we shall bury her tomorrow,” a relative said.
Obama’s father, Barack Obama Sr., was born in Kogelo, a rural village in western Kenya.
He left for studies on a scholarship in the United States where he met a white woman, Ann Dunham, at the University of Hawaii.
The couple got married but divorced when the younger Obama was two years old. His father returned to Kenya where he died in a car crash in Nairobi in 1982.
‘The StraitTimes’ reports that Obama never really knew his father, whom he met only once when he was 10, but he felt a connection that eventually took him to Kenya in 1987 in search of his roots.  In a fiery eulogy for longtime U.S. Representative John Lewis on Thursday, former President Barack Obama took a series of thinly veiled shots at the actions of his successor that he said tore at the legacy of the Black civil rights icon being laid to rest. The funeral for… July 31, 2020 In "News" Kamala Harris makes history today as not only the first woman but first Black person as well as the first person of South Asian descent to become the Vice- President of the United States. FELIX NWANERI reports It was optimism in the camp of United States (U.S.) Democrats, when then… January 20, 2021 In "Politics" After a tortuous ride, Senator Joe Biden will be inaugurated today as the 46th President of the United States (U.S.). WALE ELEGBEDE writes on how the 78-year-old will establish a baseline to manage the expectations on his administration Former Vice President of the United States (U.S), Joe Biden, is back… January 20, 2021 In "Politics"