 The Belize Football Federation has expressed its “disappointment and disgust” after a bus taking the national team to their hotel in Haiti was held up by an armed gang.
The incident occurred on Monday shortly after the squad had arrived in the country for a 2022 World Cup qualifier, reports the BBC.
Police escorting the team were forced to negotiate with the gang to allow the bus to proceed to the hotel.
Captain Deon McCauley described the incident as “a moment of intense fear”.
“I am happy everyone is safe and I commend you guys for being brave,” he added.
“Let’s continue to stick together and please make the best decisions when it comes to the team.”
An image posted on the Federation’s (FFB) Facebook page showed the gang on motorbikes, wearing masks and carrying weapons.
In a statement, the FFB said: “The Football Federation of Belize takes this time to express its disappointment and disgust at an unfortunate incident faced by the Jaguars as the team was headed from the airport to the hotel in Haiti.
“Despite the four-man police escort, the team bus was stopped by an uproar of insurgents with assault rifles on motorcycles and police escorts were forced to negotiate with them for the team bus to continue its journey to the hotel.
“We are pleased to report that our Jaguars, although shaken by the terrible experience, are safely at their hotel.”
The FFB added the safety of the team was its “top priority” and had contacted FIFA and the Confederation of North, Central American and Caribbean Association Football (Concacaf) over moving them to a safer environment.
The team is scheduled to play Haiti in their opening World Cup qualifier in Port-au-Prince on Thursday.
FIFA has been contacted by the BBC for comment.  Youth and Sports Development Minister, Sunday Dare, says only a win in Freetown will be acceptable to Nigerians when the Super Eagles take on their Sierra Leonean counterparts in the reverse group L fixture of the 2022 African Nations Cup qualifier on Tuesday. The Super Eagles surrendered a… November 16, 2020 In "Sports" Super Eagles’ coach, Gernot Rohr has admitted that he is worried about the form of his players, after the ongoing war against coronavirus scuttled his plans to line the Nigerian national team out for two international friendlies next month. Although Rohr expressed happiness that two young players from Arsenal of… August 21, 2020 In "Sports" The Nigeria Football Federation has revealed that the Nigeria female national team, Super Falcons, will be taking part in a tournament in Turkey to keep them in shape after their failure to qualify for the only competition taking place in 2021, the Tokyo Olympic Games. In a communique released after… December 31, 2020 In "Sports"