Brazil has exceeded 2,000 Covid-related deaths in a single day for the first time, as infection rates soar. The country has the second highest death toll in the world, behind the US. Experts warn the transmission rate is made worse by more contagious variants. On Wednesday former leader Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva hit out at President Jair Bolsonaro’s “stupid” decisions, reports the BBC. Bolsonaro has downplayed the threat from the virus. Earlier this week he told people to “stop whining”. The surge in cases has put health systems in most of Brazil’s largest cities under immense pressure, with many close to collapse, Brazil’s leading public health centre Fiocruz warns. Margareth Dalcolmo, a doctor and researcher at Fiocruz said the country was “at the worst moment of the pandemic”. “2021 is still going to be a very hard year,” she told AFP news agency. Wednesday saw Brazil record 2,286 deaths, bringing its total to 268,370. It means Brazil has a rate of 128 deaths per 100,000 population – 11th highest amongst 20 of the worst affected countries in the world. The highest rates are in the Czech Republic with 208 deaths per 100,000 people and the UK with 188 deaths per 100,000 people, according to Johns Hopkins University in the US. Thursday is the anniversary of a pandemic being declared by the World Health Organisation. Worldwide more than 118 million cases of the virus have been recorded, and more than 2.6 million deaths. What’s the situation in Brazil? On Wednesday, the country recorded 79,876 new cases, the third highest number in a single day. A surge in cases in recent days has been attributed to the spread of a highly contagious variant of the virus – named P1 – which is thought to have originated in the Amazon city of Manaus. A total of 2,286 people died with the virus on Wednesday. According to Fiocruz, 15 state capitals have intensive care units (ICUs) that are at more than 90% capacity including Rio de Janeiro and São Paulo. Reports say the capital Brasilia has now reached full ICU capacity, while two cities – Porto Alegre and Campo Grande – have exceeded capacity. In its report, the institute warned that figures point to the “overload and even collapse of health systems”. Brazilian epidemiologist Dr Pedro Hallal told the BBC’s Outside Source TV programme: “If we do not start vaccinating the population here very soon, it will become a massive tragedy.” Dr Hallal, who works in Rio Grande do Sul, said people felt “abandoned by the federal government”. Bolsonaro has belittled the risks posed by the virus from the start of the pandemic. He has also opposed quarantine measures taken at a regional level, arguing that the damage to the economy would be worse than the effects of the virus itself. Former leader Lula, in his first speech since corruption convictions against him were annulled, told people not to follow “stupid” decisions by Bolsonaro and to “get vaccinated”. Speaking on Wednesday he said “a lot of deaths could have been avoided”. Bolsonaro said the criticism was unjustified. What do we know about the Brazil variant? Preliminary data suggests the P1 variant could be up to twice as transmittable as the original version of the virus. It also suggests that the new variant could evade immunity built up by having had the original version of Covid. The chance of reinfection is put at between 25% and 60%. Last week, the Fiocruz Institute said P1 was just one of several “variants of concern” that have become dominant in six of eight states studied by the Rio-based organisation. “This information is an atomic bomb,” said Roberto Kraenkel, of the Covid-19 Brazil Observatory, told the Washington Post newspaper. World Health Organisation Director General Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus has described the situation in Brazil as “very concerning” and warned of a possible regional spillover.   The spread of coronavirus in Brazil could be about to slow, the Health Ministry said on Wednesday, amid reports the transmission rate has fallen below the key level and early signs of a gradual decline in the weekly totals of cases and fatalities. The cautious optimism comes despite figures… August 20, 2020 In "News" ...as Brazil's cases top 3.4m, death toll nears 110,000 New Zealand said it would increase the number of defence personnel at its quarantine facilities and border to beat any further spread of COVID-19, as it reported five new cases in the community on Wednesday. Around 500 more defence personnel will… August 19, 2020 In "News" Spain has recorded more than one million coronavirus cases, becoming the first western European country to pass that landmark figure. On Wednesday the country reported 16,973 infections and 156 deaths in the previous 24 hours, reports the BBC. Since its first diagnosed case on 31 January, Spain has now recorded… October 22, 2020 In "News"