 Australia on Saturday recorded first local COVID-19 case in more than two weeks after a doctor tested positive for the coronavirus, triggering restrictions in area hospitals.
Queensland state Premier Annastacia Palaszczuk said the unnamed doctor last week treated two patients who had recently returned to Australia and had tested positive for the UK variant, reports Reuters.
“We know this doctor, who assessed these two COVID-positive patients was at the hospital at the time. Now, she developed symptoms,” Palaszczuk told reporters in the state capital, Brisbane. It was Australia’s first local infection since Feb 24.
The doctor, whose name was not released, treated patients, forcing authorities into urgent contact-tracing, Palaszczuk said. The authorities have yet to determine how many people the doctor treated.
As officials seek to determine the size of the outbreak, Palaszczuk said, all hospitals in the state capital will be closed to visitors.
Australia has reported just over 29,000 coronavirus infections and 909 COVID-19 deaths, far fewer than many developed countries, helped by international border closures, lockdowns and strict social-distancing rules.
In neighbouring New Zealand, Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern said on Saturday the country will reopen its borders for the first time to allow residents of Niue, a small Pacific country, to enter.
They will not have to quarantine on their arrival from March 24, Arden said.
“Niue has no reported cases of COVID-19 and its stringent border controls mean we can be confident it is safe to commence quarantine-free travel to New Zealand from Niue,” Ardern said in an emailed statement.  CONTINUED FROM LAST WEEK In this concluding, JULIANA FRANCIS writes that cases of coronavirus have continued to create serious challenges in Nigeria’s public health sector On June 24, our reporter visited the Lagos Island Maternity Hospital. He got there by 10a.m l. and by 11a.m., a doctor had attended to… July 9, 2020 In "Insight" The outbreak of the COVID-19 pandemic has created serious challenges in the public health sector. In this investigation, JULIANA FRANCIS examines the issues Our ordeal in public hospitals - Patients It’s been over 40 days since Tope Asoroda was buried, leaving behind his wife, Oluwakemi and four children. Oluwakemi still… July 2, 2020 In "Insight" ...nine doctors infected in Cross River Nigeria’s COVID-19 daily death toll dropped to a record low on Friday with one person confirmed to have died of COVID-19 complications in the country. The Nigeria Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) confirmed the death in its update for July 31. This is the… August 1, 2020 In "Top Stories"