Super Eagles and Everton midfielder, Alex Iwobi, has disclosed that Nigeria has the quality to qualify of players to win the Africa Cup of Nations AFCON to be hosted by Cameroon in 2022.  The Gernot Rohr-tutored side have won two and drawn two of their four group games played so far to sit top of Group L with eight points Iwobi is confident that despite the disappointment of managing two disappointing draws against Sierra Leone last November, the Super Eagles have the resources to guarantee that qualification ticket to Cameroon 2022.  “The positive you can take is we are still on course to be top of the table, so we are confident we have the quality to do so and put 100% for 90 minutes this time, so we can qualify,” the 24-year-old told BBC Sport Africa.   The midfielder was one of Nigeria’s heroes in Egypt, where the Super Eagles made it to the semifinals before succumbing to eventual champions Algeria. Iwobi states his desire to relive that experience and possibly power the country to her fourth continental honours.  Liverpool’s Klopp leads charge to stop players from travelling Clubs can hold on to players –FIFA Nigeria may pay heavily for the lack-lustre display in the back-to-back Africa Nations Cup qualifiers against Sierra Leone as the Super Eagles stars may not be able to honour the forthcoming games in the… March 5, 2021 In "Sports" The president of the Nigeria Football Federation, Amaju Pinnick, has said the Super Eagles of Nigeria has learnt a bitter lesson after their failure to defeat Sierra Leone over two legs in the recently played Africa Cup of Nations.   Speaking on the occasion of his 50th birthday anniversary, the… December 1, 2020 In "Sports" In the recent FIFA window, Nigeria played a back-toback game with Sierra Leone but surprisingly, the Super Eagles picked just two of the six points at stake, same as the Leone Stars. And so the six points recorded in two opening games last year in the African Nations Cup qualifiers… November 26, 2020 In "Editorial"