The Attorney-General of the Federation and Minister of Justice, Mr. Abubakar Malami, SAN, yesterday said plea bargain will reduce the cost of prosecution in the country.  Malami, who spoke at a virtual stakeholders roundtable to review the draft guidelines on plea bargaining for federal prosecutors, said the provisions are inadequate to guide the prosecutor and the defendant in reaching a plea bargain that ensures the protection of public interest, the interest of justice and prevents abuse of legal process.  According to him, provision in Section 270 of Administration of Criminal Justice Act (ACJA) 2015, can also be effectively deployed to address the compounding of offences which features in some statutes but without any procedural detail to aid its application.  He said, ”S.270 of the ACJA (2015) provides the general legal framework for the application of Plea Bargain. I believe that this provision can also be effectively deployed to address the compounding of offences which features in some statutes but without any procedural detail to aid its application.  This lacuna is responsible for abuses in compounding of offences which had strengthened the current public skepticism about plea bargaining in general.  ”In spite of the laudable provisions of Section 270 of the ACJA, there is no doubt that these provisions are inadequate to guide the prosecutor and the defendant in reaching a plea bargain that ensures the protection of public interest, the interest of justice and prevents abuse of legal process. This informed the development of the Draft Guidelines which is before you for review.  ”As you are well aware, the Justice system in our nation is presently fraught with a lot of challenges which prolong adjudication time and most times frustrate parties. The effective deployment of Plea Bargain provisions will therefore, reduce the financial cost of prosecutions, hasten trial process, eliminate uncertainty of trials, enhance the quick return of stolen assets, and generally enhance the efficiency of the criminal justice system  The Attorney-General of the Federation and Minister of Justice, Abubakar Malami, SAN, yesterday said that the proposed consolidated sentencing guidelines would ensure that congestion in prisons in Nigeria is reduced to the barest minimum through the use of non-custodial sentences.   The AGF said this was in line with section… August 18, 2020 In "News" In a bid to decongest the Correctional Centres across the country , the Federal Government has introduced a noncustodial sentencing for offenders depending on their offence.   Speaking at the signing of the new Consolidated Federal Capital Territory Courts (Custodial and Non – Custodial Sentencing ) Practice Directions, 2020 in… November 3, 2020 In "News" Attorney-General of the Federation and Minister of Justice, Abubakar Malami (SAN) will no longer appear before the Justice Ayo Salami panel to testify against the suspended Acting Chairman of the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC), Mr. Ibrahim Magu. This is a departure from Malami’s earlier position to appear before… September 25, 2020 In "News"