 Newcastle winger Ryan Fraser said “we need to save our season” after Steve Bruce’s side were convincingly beaten by fellow Premier League strugglers Brighton at Amex Stadium.
Goals from Leandro Trossard, Danny Welbeck and Neal Maupay ensured Brighton eased their own relegation concerns as they moved six points clear of the Premier League’s bottom three and four above the Magpies, reports the BBC.
Bruce’s faltering side remain in serious trouble, with just two points separating them from 18th-placed Fulham – though they do have a game in hand on the Cottagers.
“The mood is the lowest it’s been,” Fraser said. “We just weren’t good enough. It was a must-win game after doing all right in the last couple of weeks. It didn’t happen for us tonight.
“We need to save our season now. We want to try and work on how we’re going to stay in the league. We’re not in the bottom three yet and we’ve still got games remaining. If we go and win our next game it looks rosy again. We’ve still got to play Fulham too.”
Trossard’s curled finish into the bottom corner in first-half stoppage time was the least Brighton’s early dominance deserved, and Welbeck’s sublime strike from outside the box doubled the advantage six minutes after the restart.
Maupay then put the result beyond any doubt as he met Pascal Gross’ cross for his first goal in 10 league games midway through the second half.
The visitors were second best throughout and rarely threatened a comeback – they had only one shot on target – though Fraser was inches away from an equaliser when he fired against the post shortly after the break.
RESULT
Brighton 3 – 0 Newcastle  *Strugglers West Brom, Newcastle share goalless draw Liverpool's incredible slide continued with a sixth successive Premier League home defeat as Fulham secured a crucial win to give their survival hopes a huge boost. Mario Lemina's goal on the stroke of half-time, after the Gabon midfielder had dispossessed Mohamed Salah, gave… March 7, 2021 In "Sports" *Brighton cruise past Magpies, Son sinks Saints with 4 goals Brendan Rodgers says his Leicester team are "not even thinking about" about a sustained Premier League title challenge despite moving top for the first time since they were champions in 2015-16. Sunday's victory over Burnley gave Rodgers his 100th win… September 21, 2020 In "Sports" *Fulham win as Liverpool lose sixth straight home game *Strugglers West Brom, Newcastle share goalless draw Manchester United brought Manchester City's sequence of 21 successive victories in all competitions to a crashing halt with an impressive derby victory at Etihad Stadium. Pep Guardiola's side still have what looks to be… March 7, 2021 In "Sports"