 Muhammad Kabir,  Kano The Kano State Executive Council has approved the release of N8, 980, 303, 460.63 for the construction of the Muhammadu Buhari Interchange at NNPC Mega Station Rotary Intersection, Hotoro, along Maiduguri Road in the metropolis.
The state’s Commissioner for Information, Malam Muhammad Garba disclosed this at a media briefing on the outcome of the weekly council meeting, which held at the Africa House, Government House, Kano late Monday.
He said the project was part of the present administration’s commitment to construct road networks to address increasing traffic congestion in line with its policy of transforming Kano into a mega city as well as boost commercial activities.
Malam Garba explained that being an emerging mega city and important commercial centre in the country, Kano has been recording significant increase in the influx of commercial traffic and therefore the need to redesign and improve existing road networks to support additional volumes of generated traffic in order to allow for safer and more efficient vehicular movements.
The commissioner also announced that the council has given approval for the release of the sum of N44, 300, 000 for the re-accreditation and resource visitation requirements for Audu Bako College of Agriculture, Dambatta.  Kano State Governor, Abdullahi Umar Ganduje, at the weekend revealed his administration’s plan to build a three-layered road interchange around NNPC Roundabout in the city, which he also planned to name after President Muhammadu Buhari.   He made this known at the swearing-in ceremony of the newly elected local government… February 15, 2021 In "News" The Kano State Executive Council yesterday gave approval for the award and execution of contracts and projects in the state.   The council also ratified others that had earlier been granted executive approval worth N4, 424, 121, 793.83 billion Commissioner for Information in the state, Malam Muhammad Garba, disclosed this… September 29, 2020 In "News" The Kano State Executive Council has approved the termination of a contract for the construction of the multi-million naira Dawakin Tofa 5km carriageway, which was re-awarded to Messrs CCECC Nigeria Limited at the cost of N651, 844, 966.51 million.   Contract for the  road project, which was awarded to Rocad… August 17, 2020 In "News"