 At least 40 people have been killed in another attack in the Niger Republic when a group of armed assailants ravaged several villages in the Tahoua region near the border with Mali, the government said on Monday.
Government spokesperson Abdoulraman Zakaria said on Monday that soldiers were sent to the region and fought the attackers.
It was, however, not known who was behind the attack.
Numerous armed groups are active in Niger and in neighbouring Sahel countries. Some have sworn allegiance to the Islamic State, while others are linked to al-Qaeda.
The government has little control over the desert areas outside the cities, a situation which is exploited by jihadist groups and criminal networks such as people smugglers.
In the Mali border region, there have been recurring attacks.
On March 16, at least 58 people were killed in an attack on market traders in the region of Tillaberi, the government said.
Niger has also seen demonstrations after the recent presidential election.
At the end of February, the electoral commission declared former foreign minister Mohamed Bazoum, a close ally of outgoing President Mahamadou Issoufou, the winner with almost 56 per cent of the vote.
Former president and opposition candidate Mahamane Ousmane slammed the result as fraudulent and claims he is the winner.
The Constitutional Court on Sunday confirmed Bazoum’s victory. (dpa/NAN)  Suspected Islamist militants have attacked two villages in Niger, killing around 79 people, according to Reuters news agency. Around 49 were killed and 17 injured in the village of Tchombangou, while another 30 died in Zaroumdareye - both near Niger's western border with Mali. There have been several recent… January 3, 2021 In "News" At least seven persons have been reported killed after bandits attacked several communities in Kasai and Nahuta villages of Batsari Local Government Area of Katsina State. A resident of Kurmiyal, a neighbouring community, Sama’ila Lihidda, confirmed the incident to Channels Television in a phone call. Lihidda stressed that the… June 20, 2020 In "Metro & Crime" President Muhammmadu Buhari has assured that Nigeria will stand by her neighbours in the fight against terrorism In a statement issued by his spokesman, Malam Garba Shehu, the President gave this assurance while sympathising with Niger Republic over a massacre in Tillabei region of that country Buhari condemned the horrific… March 18, 2021 In "News"