  Ms. Bernice Eriemeghe, the General Manager, Copyright Society of Nigeria (COSON), Nigeria’s biggest copyright collective management organization, has said that the magnificent COSON House in Ikeja was never raided by the police at any time on Wednesday, March 17, 2021 and that there is no reason whatsoever for such a raid as COSON is in no way involved in any kind of shady activity.
Reacting to the publications on social media that COSON House was recently raided and many of the staff arrested, Ms. Eriemeghe said: “I am a professional accountant and an internationally trained manager. I will not work in a place where the rules and the law are not followed to the letter. I am exceedingly proud of the standards we have set at COSON and I make bold to say that if every Nigerian organisation is managed like COSON, Nigeria will be a great nation. COSON is one of Nigeria’s most audited organizations and we have nothing to hide.
“This social media story is another fake news of the most laughable kind. It is shamefully being promoted by the desperate detractors of the great work that COSON is doing. Of course, we know those behind it, those who are frustrated that the Almighty God has made it impossible for them to take over control of our great institution and milk it and pauperize our members. They are angry that God has stoutly refused to answer their wicked prayers that COSON should crumble.
“This is of course a rehash of the failed attempt to scuttle the December 15, 2020, COSON AGM which at the end of the day was a fantastic and productive meeting streamed live on Zoom to thousands of COSON members across the country who joined the meeting virtually. The jobless detractors failed woefully in December. The jobless detractors have failed woefully again in March and will continue to fail.”  The Copyright Society of Nigeria (COSON) has announced the plan to host the 2020 edition of the celebration of the annual “No Music Day” which holds every year on the 1st of September. “No Music Day” is a day the music industry in Nigeria dedicates annually to bring the attention… August 28, 2020 In "Arts & Entertainments" Copyright Society of Nigeria (COSON) has appealed to Kano State Governor, Umar Abdullahi Ganduje, to pardon the 22-year-old musician, Aminu Yahaya Sharif, who was recently sentenced to death for blasphemy, by the Kano Upper Shari’a Court. In an address issued Tuesday in Lagos, on the occasion of the society’s No… September 1, 2020 In "Metro & Crime" Efe Omorogbe has contributed immensely to the growth of the Nigerian entertainment industry over the past two decades. Mostly popular for managing Nigeria’s foremost superstar, 2baba, Omorogbe’s work in the industry has cut across different facets, including media, A&R, songwriting, event production and filmmaking. In this interview with EDWIN USOBOH,… March 19, 2021 In "Arts & Entertainments"