Unfazed by weekend’s tragic event, troops have killed at least forty one suspected terrorist elements in ongoing clearance operations, in the troubled North East zone of the country.  According to the Director, Army Public Relations (DAPR), Brig-Gen. Mohammed Yerima, the clearance operation leading to the killing of the fighters within the Gamboru Ngala general area, was undertaken yesterday.  He noted that the troops maintained “aggressive posturing” throughout the combat mission.  “In continuation of the ongoing offensive operation against the Boko Haram Terrorists and their Islamic State West Africa Province counterpart in the North East, troops of Operation Lafiya Dole have decisively taken out several terrorists after heavy fighting in the early hours of today, Monday 15 March 2021”, Yerima said. He noted further:  “The gallant troops, who maintained aggressive posture, conducted a fighting patrol along Gulwa and Musuri in Gamboru Ngala Local Government Area of Borno State.  “At Musuri, troops encountered elements of the terrorist group and swiftly engaged them in firefight which lasted for about 45 minutes.  “With superior firepower, troops ultimately dominated the area after neutralizing 41 of the terrorists. “They also recovered sophisticated weapons and rescued 60 elderly women and children who were in the terrorists’ captivity”.  Items recovered during the operation, according to the Army, included, 12 AK47 rifles, 8 Fabric Nationale (FN) rifles, a motorcycle, 6 bicycles, mechanic tool boxes, a sewing machine, large quantity of batteries used for making of Improvise Explosive Devices, sex enhancement drugs, amongst other things.  “Troops are in high fighting spirit and determined as ever to clear the entire region and country of vestiges of Boko Haram terrorists. “The Chief of Army Staff, Lieutenant General Ibrahim Attahiru, has already congratulated the gallant troops while urging them to keep up the tempo”, the statement concluded.   In June, troops on clearance operations in the North- East theatre had 17 fierce encounters with suspected Boko Haram and Islamic State of West African Province (ISWAP) elements.   The Coordinator, Defence Media Operations (DMO), Major General John Enenche, who made the disclosure in a statement, noted that 75 of… July 6, 2020 In "Metro & Crime" Troops deployed in Bama, Borno State, foiled a suicide bomb attempt on their location on November 3, after killing a female terrorist suspect. The Acting Director, Defence Media Operations (DMO), Brig-Gen. Benard Onyeuko, who made the disclosure in a statement yesterday, said five other terrorist suspects were neutralised in a… November 11, 2020 In "Metro & Crime" The military, Thursday, said troops had uncovered an improvised explosive device (IEDs)-making factory operated by an emerging suspected terrorist group in Nasarawa State. It noted that the Darul Salam Terrorists group was embarking on recruitment drive, through community sermons. Coordinator of the Defence Media Operations (DMO), Maj-Gen. John Enenche, who… August 27, 2020 In "News"