The apex Igbo Socio- Cultural Organisation, Ohanaeze Ndigbo has said that former media aide to President Goodluck Jonathan, Doyin Okupe, is mentally unstable to be Nigeria’s president.  While responding to a comment credited to Okupe, President-General of the Ohanaeze Ndigbo Youth Council, Okwu Nnabuike, said there is every indication that Okupe needs urgent medical attention. He said his action is not far from a person that is mentally deranged.  Okupe had in a series of tweets at the weekend, claimed that the North are yet to forgive the Igbo over the incidences of 1966 of which one of the high points was the killing of Sardauna of Sokoto.  Ohanaeze statement reads: “A national consensus for Igbo Presidency cannot evolve until the core north forgives the Igbos for the killing of Sardauna of Sokoto by Nigerian soldiers of Igbo extraction in the 1966 Coup. “If this consensus emerges, in the interest of equity, fairness and national unity, I will shelve my ambition and support whoever is chosen as a candidate by my party. However, in the event that this national consensus is not achievable, I will run for president in 2023 by God’s Grace.  “This is the political knot only the Igbo leaders must spearhead and with the support of other wellmeaning Nigerians, resolve with a high level of humility and political dexterity,” he said.   Chief Whip of the Senate and former Governor of Abia State, Senator Orji Uzor Kalu, has endorsed a former Nigeria’s Ambassador to the United States, Prof George Obiozor, as candidate for the Ohanaeze Ndigbo President General.   The Abia North Senator also called on Imeobi Ohanaeze Ndigbo, the organisation’s highest… December 7, 2020 In "News" The Coalition of South-East Youth Leaders (COSEYL) has thrown its support behind the newly elected President-General of Ohanaeze Ndigbo Worldwide, Professor George Obiozor. COSEYL stated that those against the emergence of Obiozor as President- General of Ohanaeze should have a rethink and realign their interest to that of the majority… January 19, 2021 In "News" Pan-Igbo sociocultural organisation, Ohanaeze Ndigbo yesterday condemned an alleged threat by Chief of Army Staff, General Tukur Burarai to declare a state of emergency in South-East should the governors refuse to prevent attack and killing of security personnel by unknown gunmen. Acting National Secretary and National Publicity Secretary Ohanaeze Ndigbo,… September 17, 2020 In "News"