Fitch Ratings has affirmed Nigeria’s Long-Term Foreign-Currency Issuer Default Rating (IDR) at ‘B’ with a stable outlook. In a statement released yesterday, the rating agency said that Nigeria’s ‘B’ rating is supported by: “The large size of the country’s economy, a low General Government (GG) debt-to-GDP ratio, small foreign-currency (FX) indebtedness of the sovereign, and a comparatively developed financial system with a deep domestic debt market.” Conversely, it stated that the rating is, “constrained by particularly weak fiscal revenue, comparatively low governance and development indicators, high dependence on hydrocarbons and continued weak growth and high inflation.” According to Fitch, “Nigeria continues to contend with external liquidity pressures that were magnified by the 2020 pandemic-related shock and resilience to adverse external developments is weak. “Despite gradual and moderate exchange-rate depreciation over the last year, the naira remains overvalued. “Persistent double-digit inflation under a tightly managed multiple-window exchange-rate regime could drive further misalignment of the currency relative to fundamentals. “We forecast inflation to average 16.0% in 2021 and 13.4% in 2022, driven by a number of cost-push factors.” Noting that Nigeria’s long-standing Current Account (CA) surplus shifted to a deficit of 4.2 per cent of GDP in 2019, driven by a fast rise in imports, Fitch said it is estimating a stable CA deficit of 4.2 per cent of GDP for the country in 2020, “as import compression from domestic demand contraction and restrictions on FX access offset a slump in hydrocarbon exports and remittances.”  Global credit rating agency, Fitch Ratings, has revised its outlook on Nigeria's Long- Term Foreign-Currency Issuer Default Rating (IDR) to stable from negative and affirmed the IDR at 'B'. In a statement yesterday, Fitch said, “The revision of the outlook reflects a decrease in the level of uncertainty surrounding the… October 1, 2020 In "News" •Fitch revises Nigeria’s outlook from negative to stable The remaining five candidates in the race for the job of Director- General of the World Trade Organisation (WTO) will know their fate next week. This is as Fitch Ratings yesterday revised the outlook on Nigeria’s long-term foreign-currency Issuer Default Rating to… October 3, 2020 In "News" •Debt service to gulp all 2020 revenue –IMF   •Says economy to shrink by -5.4%     •Nigeria’s rating at risk as financing gap rises –Fitch       According to the Joint World Bank-IMF Debt Sustainability Framework for Low-Income Countries released in 2020, a country’s debt service… June 28, 2020 In "Business"