Edo youths under the umbrella of Edo Restoration Movement at the weekend issued a 72-hour ultimatum to the Minister of Niger Delta Affairs, Senator Godswill Akpabio, over what it tagged exclusion of Edo State from the NDDC board.  The group protesting at the state office of the commission in Benin City, carried placards with different inscriptions such as; “IMC is illegal in NDDC Act,” “We are giving Akpabio 72 hours to resign,” “Let Akpabio hands off the management of NDDC,” “NDDC stop marginalising Edo State,”  “Constitute NDDC Board now,” among others. Speaking during the protest, Secretary General, Edo Restoration Movement, Ben Bowei, said the youths were there to take over the NDDC office in Benin City, because of the marginalisation of the state by the NDDC.  He said such marginalisation must stop, emphasising that the interim NDDC board should be dissolved and a legally constituted board take over the management of the commission. “We are here to take over the NDDC office, because Edo State has been marginalised by NDDC and this must not be allowed to continue.  We are here to put a stop to this injustice, We are part of the Niger Delta. Edo State is the fifth oil producing state and the third largest producer of gas in Nigeria  You be rogue (I no be rogue) You dey steal (I no dey steal) You be robber (I no be robber) You be armed robber (No be armed robber) Argument, argument, argue Them argue Everybody dem argue Dem dem argue Up and down them argue nonsense - Fela Anikulapo-Kuti –… July 25, 2020 In "Perspective" Minister of Niger Delta Affairs, Senator Godswill Akpabio, has denied news reports that he offered a bribe of $5 million to the Attorney-General of the Federation (AGF) and Minister of Justice, Abubakar Malami (SAN), to secure the appointment of a sole administrator for the Niger Delta Development Commission (NDDC). The… January 18, 2021 In "News" ....As Ateke Tom, Boyloaf, Shoot-at-Sight, other ex-agitators endorse Akwa Key stakeholders in the development of the Niger Delta region have applauded President Muhammadu Buhari for re-positioning the Niger Delta Development Commission (NDDC), to fast-track the development of Nigeria’s oil-rich region. The stakeholders stated this at the end of a… January 16, 2021 In "Metro & Crime"