The emergence of foremost Awoist and lawyer, Chief Ayo Adebanjo, as the leader of the pan-Yoruba socio-political organisation, Afenifere, has been lauded as a positive development for the Yoruba race.  Former Minority Whip of the House of Representatives and Special Adviser on Strategy and Political Matters to Governor Seyi Makinde of Oyo State, Hon. Babatunde Oduyoye, stated this yesterday in a statement he signed and made available to newsmen in Ibadan. Oduyoye, who once served as national publicity secretary of the Afenifere, maintained that the choice of Adebanjo as Afenifere Leader was a step in the right direction for the Yoruba nation.  He added that the Yoruba people needed Adebanjo’s wealth of experience, versatility and unassailable courage at this point in its history.  According to Oduyoye, the challenges facing the South-West states and Yoruba nation as a whole in terms of leadership, insecurity, slow pace of economic development, among others, would only be surmounted with the vision and passion of individuals like Adebanjo, who has over the years made his “voice count at every moment that mattered the most.”  Oduyoye prayed for more strength and good health for Adebanjo, who he described as a worthy model and fearless   The Coalition of Afenifere Youth Groups (CAYG) has urged Yoruba elders to call a chieftain of its apex socio-political group, Ayo Adebanjo, to order over comments bordering on national security.  The Afenifere youths, in a statement signed by its Publicity Secretary, Otunba  Ibukunke Daniel, on Friday, said some enemies of the Yoruba nation… August 29, 2020 In "News" Afenifere, the pan Yoruba Socio-political group has appointed Chief Ayo Adebanjo as Acting Leader following stepping aside of its leader,Chief Reuben Fasoranti. Fasoranti, who named Adebanjo as his successor also named Oba Oladipo Olaitan, the Alaago of Kajola Ago in Atakunmosa East Local Government Area of Osun State as the… March 17, 2021 In "News" Rumours fly all over the place that the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) has commenced the investigation of ex-Lagos Governor, Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu for financial malfeasance.   The appointment of the new EFCC boss, Abdulrasheed Bawa, who, as the Lagos zonal coordinator of the EFCC, started some investigation… March 10, 2021 In "Back Page Columnist"