  Gunmen have kidnapped another foreigner along Igbemo Ekiti in Irepodun/Ifelodun Local Government Area of Ekiti State.
The Police Public Relations Officer in the state, Sunday Abutu, confirmed the kidnap to Channels Television, noting that the incident took place on Tuesday.
The police spokesman asked residents not to get tensed as security operatives, noting that efforts were ongoing to the rescue of the victim and the arrest of culprits.
The latest abduction comes three months after a similar incident in Ekiti State.
In November last year, an expatriate handling a road construction was abducted and released after two weeks.
Meanwhile, the Ekiti State Police Command has banned unauthorised use of covered number plates, blaring of siren and use of revolving lights by unapproved persons.
In a statement issued on Tuesday, the Commissioner of Police in the state, Tunde Mobayo, described the illegal privileges as a threat to the security of the state.
“Undoubtedly, this in recent time, has pulled a great threat to the security of the State as some criminal elements hide under these guises to carry out their criminal intentions.
“To this end, the Ekiti State Commissioner of Police, CP Tunde Mobayo in compliance with the directive of the Inspector-General of Police, IGP Adamu Mohammed, has warned against the unauthorized/illegal use of siren, revolving light, covered plate numbers and the use of unregistered spy plate numbers,” he said.  Many Nigerians at one time or the order have fallen victims of banditry, kidnapping, robbery, police brutality in different ways.   A lot of these Victims have in the process met untimely death leaving family and friends into agony and despair of loosing loved ones. Families of victims often times… December 2, 2020 In "City Life" Unknown assailants again struck on Friday and murdered a clergyman, Revd Johnson Oladimeji along Igbara- Odo- Ikere-Ekiti road, Ikere Local Government Area, Ekiti State.   It was gathered that Oladimeji, a presiding cleric of Solution Baptist Church Ikere-Ekiti was killed along the road by gunmen suspected to be kidnappers around… November 29, 2020 In "News" Adewumi Ademiju, Ado Ekiti A police officer was reportedly killed on Friday, as gunmen abducted a Chinese expatriate in Ekiti State. The incident, according to the Police Public Relations Officer, Ekiti Command, ASP Sunday Abutu, occurred around 4.30pm along new Ado-Iyin road. The abductee was one of the Engineers… November 28, 2020 In "Metro & Crime"