 The Police Command in Benue has confirmed the killing of Dr Terkula Suswam, an elder brother of Sen. Gabriel Suswam, by gunmen at Anyiin on Tuesday evening.
The confirmation is contained in a statement signed by the command’s Public Relations Officer (PPRO), DCP Catherine Anene, on Wednesday in Makurdi.
”At about 1930hrs information was received that while Dr Terkura Suswam and his aide, Mr Solomon, sat opposite his house at Elohim Plaza, Anyiin, to supervise repairs at the said plaza, yet-to-be identified gunmen, who drove in a Toyota Camry vehicle, attacked and shot him and his aide.
”A team of police officers on patrol in the area rushed to the scene and conveyed the victims to NKST Anyiin Hospital where they were eventually confirmed dead.
“Their corpses have been deposited at the hospital for autopsy.
“While commiserating with family members and friends of the deceased, the Commissioner of Police has ordered a discreet investigation to ensure that the perpetrators of this gruesome murder are apprehended and justice is served.
“Anyiin town has been cordoned off by additional police teams deployed to assist the Division to nip this crime in the bud, ” the statement said.
The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the late Suswam was an industrialist, owner of Ashiwaves, an FM radio station in the state, a chieftain of the PDP and a traditional title holder.  Gunmen have killed Terkula Suswam, the elder brother of the immediate past Benue Governor, Senator Gabriel Suswam. He was killed with his aide in Anyiin, Gaambetiev, Local Government Area in Benue State. It was learnt that the incident occurred around 8:46 pm on Tuesday. An eye witness, who pleaded… March 3, 2021 In "Metro & Crime" Benin national beheads friend in Ibadan Gunmen have killed a 45-year-old man, Mr. Isaac Orisadeyi Adedokun, the younger brother of Oyo State Commissioner for Local Government and Chieftaincy Matters, Hon. Funmilayo Orisadeyi. Addedokun was shot dead on Tuesday night at Nihort area of Ibadan while on a commercial motorcycle. Orisadeyi… November 19, 2020 In "Metro & Crime" *Elder brother of Adamawa House's Majority Leader also kidnapped Suspected gunmen have abducted the wife and son of a security detail of former Vice President Atiku Abubakar. The kidnappers were believed to have gone for the said aid to Atiku, whose name is not given but confirmed to be a… November 25, 2020 In "Metro & Crime"