 The Nigeria Football Federation (NFF) has announced that Super Eagles player, Alex Iwobi, has tested negative for COVID-19.
It had earlier been reported that officials of the Super Eagles team questioned Iwobi’s COVID-19 positive test result that forced the Everton FC man to miss Nigeria’s African Cup of Nations qualifier against the Benin Republic last Saturday.
He was replaced by Galatasaray’s Henry Onyekuru in the game that ended 1-0 in favour of the Eagles.
The test result also meant that the 24-year-old, who immediately went into isolation, may not feature in the team’s game against Lesotho which will be played at the Teslim Balogun Stadium in Lagos on Tuesday (today).
However, the NFF, in a tweet on Tuesday morning, announced that further tests carried out on the player returned negative.
The Federation, however, failed to disclose if the player will feature in today’s game against Lesotho or not.
“Update: @NGSuperEagles forward, @alexiwobi has tested negative after further COVID-19 tests were conducted,” the tweet read.  Nigeria’s Super Eagles are physically, mentally, psychologically and medically fit for Friday’s AFCON qualifier against the Leone Stars of Sierra Leone. COVID-19 tests conducted on every player and official of the team returned negative on Thursday evening, further lifting the spirit of the three-time African champions ahead of… November 13, 2020 In "Sports" The Super Eagles are all set for another pack of Eagles (Tunisia’s Carthage Eagles) in Tuesday’s big friendly at the Jacques Lemans Arena in the Austrian city of St. Veit an der Glan, following a fresh round of COVID-19 tests conducted on players and officials on Monday. On Friday, the… October 12, 2020 In "Sports" Everton star Alex Iwobi missed Nigeria’s Africa Cup of Nations qualifier against Benin after testing positive for coronavirus, according to reports in the local media.   Unverified sources indicate that the attacker was tested positive for COVID-19 upon arrival in Benin ahead of Saturday’s showdown between the Super Eagles and… March 28, 2021 In "Sports"