 The Osun State Police Command on Saturday morning confirmed the release of the seven abducted travellers along Osogbo/Obokun road.
According to reports, suspected herdsmen on Tuesday night around 7:30pm stormed the road after Ajenbandele village in Ibokun Council Area of Osun State and abducted an unknown number of travellers.
During the attack, a yet-to-be-known man was shot dead while two women sustained injuries.
The Commissioner of Police, Osun State, Mr Olawale Olokode, had said his men, Amotekun Corps, Vigilante and Hunters are combing the forest to secure the release of those that were abducted.
A statement by the spokesperson of Osun Police Command, Mrs Yemisi Opalola stated that, with the frantic efforts of Police and support from other security outfits, they have secured the release of seven kidnapped along Ibokun/Osogbo road on 2nd March 2021.
“The victims were released due to the pressure mounted on the abductors by the Police and other security agencies. The victims will soon be reunited with their families.
“The Commissioner of Police appeals to the good citizens of the State to collaborate with Police to get rid of all criminal elements from the State while assuring the members of the public/commuters of their safety as security measures have been put in place to forestall future occurrence,” she added.  Combined security operatives yesterday arrested seven suspects in connection with the abduction of three travellers on Omoh-Erin- Ijesha Road in Ori-Ade Local Government Area of Osun State on Sunday. The state Coordinator of Oodua Peoples Congress (OPC), Deji Aladesawe, confirmed the arrest to journalists in Osogbo yesterday. It was learnt… January 21, 2021 In "Metro & Crime" Gunmen on Saturday evening abducted two travellers at Wasinmi area, along Ife-Ibadan Expressway in Osun State. The victims were said to be heading toward Ikire before their abduction. Confirming the report, Osun Police Command spokesperson, Yemisi Opalola said police have been deployed to the scene of the incident. She… March 7, 2021 In "Metro & Crime" Three persons, who were abducted on Thursday last week, by suspected gunmen along the Ilesa/Ife expressway in Osun State, have been released.   Spokesperson for the state’s Police Command, SP Yemisi Opalola, confirmed the release of the abductees to journalists in Osogbo, yesterday. The younger brother of Seriki of Hausa… March 30, 2021 In "Metro & Crime"