The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), yesterday said it would soon begin the conversion of existing voting points to full fledge polling units across the country. The commission, however, said it had been able to eliminate multiple nomination of candidates by political parties through the use of technology. INEC’s National Commissioner and Chairman, Information and Voter Education Committee, Mr. Festus Okoye, at an interaction with journalists, said the commission had consulted with election stakeholders and has gotten their endorsement for the proposal. Okoye said INEC used over 57,000 voting points, tied to the mother voting units, during the 2019 general election due to inadequate of polling units. He said: “We have almost concluded with the consultations. The moment we are done with the consultation, in the next weeks or so, we will move to implementation. “This implementation will take place at the level of the local governments and states level, because that is where this conversion will take place.” He added that the commission would start continuous voters registration (CVR) exercise, after the conversion, and expressed confidence “that young men and women who have attained the age of 18, will have an opportunity of having their names on the voter register. “They will also have new polling units that are closer to them so that some of them don’t have to travel 10 kilometres on election day and at a period where there is restriction of movement.”  After three previous attempts, the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) begins another process of polling units delineation with consultations with election stakeholders. ONYEKACHI EZE examines the effectiveness of this approach     After three unsuccessful attempts, the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) now adopted a new approach to the disturbing… February 16, 2021 In "Politics" The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) is to engage election stakeholders for the delineation of polling units in the country. The commission had been dogged with challenges of creating more polling units to ease congestion of polling units. Presently, there are 120,000 polling units in Nigeria, which INEC says is… February 3, 2021 In "News" The Inter-agency Consul tat ive Committee on Election Security (ICCES) and Civil Society Organisations (CSOs) have advised the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) to consult widely with election stakeholders before embarking on the creation of additotional polling units. The two bodies, at separate meetings with the commission however, supported the… February 11, 2021 In "News"