A front-line Clergy, Business Mogul and APC Caucus member in Abia State, Bishop Dr Ambassador, Emeka Michael Nwankpa, has endorsed Hon Mascot Uzor Kalu for House of Reps, Aba North and South Federal Constituency.  In a statement he issued and made available to New Telegraph, Bishop Nwankpa who is a leader in APC Isiala Ngwa North LGA and candidate of the party for the Federal House of Representatives in 2019, urged all citizens of Aba North and South Federal Constituency to come out on 27th March, 2021, bye election and vote for the APC Candidate, Hon Mascot Uzor kalu.  His word: “What do we need to tell Aba People? We need a representative that will leverage on what his colleagues are doing in Abia North….. All the attention Abia north is getting will be replicated in Aba.”  He said Mascot Uzor Kalu deserved to be elected because “We need a representative that will take advantage of being at the centre to improve on what our late Ossy has done. “We need a representative that will help bring Federal presence to Aba and tap into the potentials of Aba.  “Mascot Uzor Kalu was born and brought up in Aba. He is most qualified to represent Ndi Aba “Aba will be brought to the National map of development with APC at the centre.  “Aba needs a competent hand at this moment after Ossy’s death to continue to move Aba forward and not ethic and myopic representation.  “For the first time after Abacha era..Osisoma to Ugba junction is now being reconstructed by the APC federal government to create access to Aba industrial hub.”  The Senate Chief Whip and Senator for Abia North, Dr. Orji Uzor Kalu, has commiserated with the government and people of Abia State over the passing of a member of House of Representatives for Aba North and Aba South federal constituency, Hon. Ossy Chinedu Prestige. Senator Kalu, in a condolence… February 11, 2021 In "Metro & Crime" Former Governor of Abia State and Chief Whip of the Senate, Dr. Orji Kalu has commiserated with the government and people of Abia State over the passing of a member of House of Representatives (Aba North and Aba South federal constituency), Hon. Ossy Chinedu Prestige. According to Kalu, the deceased… February 12, 2021 In "News" A group known as the All Progressives Congress Mass Movement in Abia State yesterday berated masterminds behind false allegations and attacks on the leader of the APC in the state and Senate Chief Whip, Dr. Orji Uzor Kalu. The blackmailers, the group said in a statement yesterday had alleged that… September 4, 2020 In "News"