 In continuation of the national vaccination exercise, the Chief of Staff to the President, Professor Ibrahim Gambari, and the Senior Special Assistant to the President on Media and Publicity, Garba Shehu have taken their first dose of AstraZeneca COVID-19 vaccine.
Also Permanent Secretary State House, Tijjani Umar and Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, National Drug Law Enforcement Agency (NDLEA), General Mohammed Buba Marwa (rtd)
They were vaccinated by the Chief Nursing Officer, Dr Esther Ibrahim at the Special Care Centre of State House Clinic, Abuja.
The Chief of Staff after taking his jab described the process as painless.
He says he is simply following the President’s footsteps as a responsible Nigerian. He urged all eligible Nigerians to present themselves for the vaccination so Nigeria can attain herd immunity.
Also speaking at the brief event, Permanent Secretary State House, Tijjani Umar said the government needs to protect its citizens through the provision of the COVID-19 vaccines.  Gambari: I've not been to Ilorin since my appointment Vaccination against the spread of Coronavirus disease would be made compulsory for all citizens when the vaccines arrive the country, the Presidential Task Force (PTF) on COVID-19 has said. It warned that those who refuse to get vaccinated may not be… February 3, 2021 In "News" President Muhammadu Buhari has counseled his Chief Security Officer's daughter, Amina Idris Ahmed and her partner, Hayatuddeen Mustapha Abba, to build the foundation of their marriage on trust and respect for each other. According to a statement made available to newsmen Saturday by his spokesman, Malam Garba Shehu, the President,… December 5, 2020 In "News" … 65 vaccination centres established in Abuja Nigeria yesterday commenced the vaccination of COVID- 19 vaccine, with a physician, Dr. Cyprian Nyong, of the National Hospital, Abuja, taking the first shot of the AstraZeneca/Oxford COVID-19 vaccine at the National Hospital, Abuja. The AstraZeneca vaccine, which arrived Nigeria on Tuesday, is… March 6, 2021 In "News"