 A strong rebound this year would still leave the world down with an estimated 10 trillion dollars due to the coronavirus pandemic and lockdowns, according to the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development (UNCTAD).
Although the global economy could expand by 4.7 per cent in 2021, it would nonetheless wind up “short of 10 trillion dollars,” about twice Japan’s gross domestic product (GDP), compared to if the pandemic had never happened.
“Last year, the global economy posted its sharpest annual drop in output since statistics on aggregate economic activity were introduced in the early 1940s,” UNCTAD said on Thursday.
While wealthy economies have proposed huge damage-limitation fiscal spending, such as the U.S. 1.9-trillion-dollar “stimulus package,” and while China returned to growth in late 2020, people in smaller and poorer countries are struggling, UNCTAD warned.
Developing countries are bearing the brunt of the downturn due to “limited fiscal space, tightening balance of payments constraints and inadequate international support,’’ leading to some of the largest personal income drops relative to GDP.
“Even a small downturn in economic activity can be devastating,” UNCTAD said, describing fallout from pandemic restrictions as predictably severe in developing economies such as the Philippines and Malaysia.
On Thursday, UNCTAD also upped its earlier prediction of 4.3-per-cent global growth in 2021, citing a possible “stronger recovery in the United States.”
In January, the World Bank said the global economy could grow by 4 per cent in 2021, while the International Monetary Fund opted for a rosier 5.5 per cent.
*Courtesy: upshot media  The world’s tourism sector could lose at least $1.2 trillion, or 1.5 per cent of the global gross domestic product (GDP), having been placed at a standstill for nearly four months due to the coronavirus pandemic, UNCTAD said in a report. The UN’s trade and development body warned that the… August 5, 2020 In "Business" Mr. Lukman Otunuga, Senior Research Analyst at FXTM, a global online financial trading and investing firm, in this interview with CHRIS UGWU, discusses issues affecting the nation’s capital market and the economy     How do you assess the Nigerian economy? It has been the same recurrent themes punishing Nigeria’s… November 16, 2020 In "Business" Global Foreign Direct and Investment flow is forecast to drop by as much as 40 per cent this year from last year’s total of $1.54 trillion following impediments caused by the deadly COVID-19 to global trade, according to the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development (UNCTAD). The slump could… July 2, 2020 In "Business"