 Honda Motor Co said late Tuesday supply chain issues will force a halt to production at a majority of U.S. and Canadian auto plants for a week.
The Japanese automaker added the issue will result in some production cuts next week at all U.S. and Canadian plants, citing “the impact from COVID-19, congestion at various ports, the microchip shortage and severe winter weather over the past several weeks.”
“In some way, all of our auto plants in the U.S. and Canada will be impacted,” Honda said.
Some U.S. and Canadian plants are expected to have smaller production cuts next week, but a spokesman for Honda added “the timing and length of production adjustments could change.”
The company declined to specify the volume of vehicles impacted but said “purchasing and production teams are working to limit the impact of this situation.”
The company added when production is suspended Honda workers “will continue to have the opportunity to work at the impacted plants.” Honda workers were notified of the production cuts Monday, reports Reuters.
Sam Fiorani, vice president of global vehicle forecasting at AutoForecast Solutions, said Honda typically produces about 30,000 vehicles a week in the United States and Canada.
The production issues are hitting Honda plants in Ontario, Ohio, Alabama, and Indiana. Honda said its Mexico operations have not announced any production cuts.
The chip shortage, which has hit most of the global automakers, stems from a confluence of factors as carmakers, which shut plants for two months during the COVID-19 pandemic last year, compete with the sprawling consumer electronics industry for chip supplies.
General Motors Co has cut production at many plants and warned it could shave up to $2 billion from this year’s earnings.
GM’s U.S. rival Ford Motor Co previously said the shortage could hurt 2021 profit by up to $2.5 billion and said it had curtailed production of its flagship F-150 pickup.  As worries about vaccine delays swept across Europe, Pfizer and BioNTech said Wednesday they have finalized an agreement to supply the European Union with another 200 million doses of their COVID-19 vaccine. The U.S. and German companies said in a statement that the doses come on top of the… February 17, 2021 In "News" Royal Dutch Shell PLC may begin the permanent shutdown of its 211,146 barrel-per-day Convent, Louisiana, refinery early next week, people familiar with plant operations said on Monday. Shell announced on November 5 the refinery, located 57 miles (92 km) west of New Orleans, was to close after the company… November 24, 2020 In "Business" •N300 billion investments to be wasted –Automakers •Say rising petrol price pushing up cost of transportation •Say FG interested just in Customs duty collection   As the outrage which greeted the Federal Government recent announcement that it is going to submit a bill to the National Assembly which would among… November 29, 2020 In "Business"