 The Kaneshie District Court in Ghana has sentenced a 28-year-old mason to 20 days imprisonment for aiding a Nigerian to acquire a Ghanaian passport.
Joseph Awuah would also pay a fine of GHC2, 400.00 in default and serve 30 days imprisonment.
Awuah was charged with abetting of crime to wit attempting to obtain Ghanaian passport through false declaration.
Awuah pleaded guilty before the court presided over by Ms Rosemond Egyiri, which convicted him on his plea and sentenced him accordingly.
Chief Superintendent of Ghana Immigration Service (GIS), Mr Adolf Asenso-Aboagye, said Awuah was arrested by the GIS Takoradi Command for aiding one Wisdom Eugene Iyamu, a Nigerian, to attempt to procure a Ghanaian passport.
According to Chief Supt Asenso-Aboagye, investigations revealed that Joseph met Wisdom and one Kelly at Arvo Hotel in Takoradi and the said Kelly enquired from Joseph if he could assist Wisdom to acquire a Ghanaian passport.
The prosecutor said Kelly then gave Joseph GHC550.00 to start the processing of the passport, Ghanaweb.com reports.
He said Joseph bought a passport form and booked an appointment in the name of Anthony Kwarteng for Wisdom.
He said Wisdom, Kelly and Joseph proceeded to the Passport Application Centre in Accra, where the GIS officials arrested Wisdom.
The prosecutor added that Joseph and Kelly absconded. He said Joseph was put under surveillance and was picked up at a cyber café at Takoradi while processing other applicants’ forms.  A Sekondi High Court in Ghana has sentenced Samuel Udoetuk Wills and John Orji, both Nigerians, to death over the kidnap and murder of four Takoradi women in 2018.   The judgement, passed on Friday, came after a seven-member jury found them guilty on all the eight counts of conspiracy… March 7, 2021 In "News" A Federal High Court sitting in Port Harcourt, Rivers State, yesterday convicted and sentenced six foreigners and a Nigerian to seven years imprisonment for oil theft.   The court presided over by Justice J. K. Omotosho announced the verdict after three years of prosecution by the Port Harcourt Zonal Office… November 24, 2020 In "Metro & Crime" President Muhammadu Buhari has approved that the Speaker of the House of Representatives, Rt. Hon. Femi Gbajabiamila, embark on a 'Legislative Diplomacy' journey to Accra today to engage his Ghanaian counterpart on the ongoing faceoff between the two countries. Ghanaian authorities have been on the offensive against Nigeria in recent… September 2, 2020 In "News"