 The Manchester United midfielder Fred was the subject of racist abuse after his side’s 3-1 FA Cup quarter-final defeat to Leicester on Sunday.
Fred was at fault for Leicester’s opening goal when he gifted the ball to Kelechi Iheanacho in front of goal, and the Leicester striker rounded the goalkeeper Dean Henderson to slot home, reports PA Media.
After the match, the 28-year-old’s Instagram account became the target of abuse online, with several of the comments racial in nature.
The Brazil international is one of several United players to be subjected to abuse in recent weeks. Marcus Rashford posted a statement about comments directed at him in late January, while Anthony Martial and Axel Tuanzebe were also targeted, as well Lauren James of the women’s team.
Manchester United have previously condemned abuse directed at their players by “mindless idiots”.
“Manchester United has zero tolerance of any form of racism or discrimination and a longstanding commitment to campaigning against it through our All Red All Equal initiative,” a statement read.  Charles Ogundiya   Super Eagles striker, Kelechi Iheanacho, has sounded a note of warning to Nigeria’s opponents in the fast approaching Africa Cup of Nations qualifiers after helping his club, Leicester City, to dump Manchester United from the English FA Cup.   The former Manchester City’s forward continue his new… March 22, 2021 In "Sports" *FA vows action against online racism The Football Association has vowed to work with the government and social media platforms to eradicate racist abuse after a succession of incidents. The Chelsea defender Reece James, West Brom’s Romaine Sawyers and the Manchester United duo Axel Tuanzebe and Anthony Martial were all targeted this… January 31, 2021 In "Sports" Kelechi Iheanacho fired a stunning hattrick in Leicester City's 5-0 rout of Sheffield United last Sunday and his Manager, Brendan Rodgers, will expect him to reproduce such devastating form as the Foxes attempt to end Manchester United's dominance when the two sides clash in an FA Cup tie this weekend.… March 20, 2021 In "Back Page Columnist"