…commends military for quick response to Kaduna abduction  President Muhammmadu Buhari has said that his government would not allow destruction of school system by would-be terrorists and bandits in the country. Buhari said this on the heels of abduction of school children by bandits, the latest being that of the School of Forestry in Kaduna last week.  The President, who tasked the nation’s local communities on the need to always provide intelligence on the activities of criminals to the security agents, also commended the Kaduna State government and the military for their quick response to the Kaduna abduction leading to the rescue of 180 students, including eight members of staff.  According to a release by his spokesman, Malam Garba Shehu, the President urged the security agents to look for others declared missing and ensure their safe return to their families.  The President, however, commended efforts and contributions of local intelligence in significantly thwarting the kidnappers, saying that a country which has an efficient local intelligence network is a safer country.  “Our military may be efficient and well-armed but it needs good efforts for the nation’s defense and the local population must rise to this challenge of the moment.” He expressed sympathy with the victims of this incident and hoped for an early end to the ordeal of those still held captive.   President Muhammadu Buhari has ordered the army to immediately fish out the bandits that attacked the Government Science Secondary School (GSSS), Kankara, Katsina State on Friday and ensure that none of the students gets missing or is harmed.   In the attack, which is said to have occurred at about… December 13, 2020 In "News" As a tenet of its false constituted ideology and business model, the insurgents had taken thousands of young Nigerians, many of whom were raped or conscripted as fighters. Most of these abductions went unnoticed, and it took the security forces unaware. For long, this name has always send shivers down… December 19, 2020 In "News" Was it not strange that the abduction of Kankara boys occurred on the day President Muhammadu Buhari arrived Daura, his hometown, in Katsina State, on a private visit? It is even more curious that the abductees were released on his birthday.   Buhari last visited the state in December 2019,… December 21, 2020 In "Back Page Columnist"