…cautions against hoarding, panic buying Regina Otokpa, Abuja Contrary to speculations of an imminent increase in the price of Premium Motor Spirit (petrol), the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC) has said there were no such plans to increase the ex-depot price of petrol in March, 2021.
A press release by the Group General Manager, Group Public Affairs Division, Dr. Kennie Obateru on Sunday in Abuja, stated that the Corporation was not contemplating any raise in the price of petrol in March in order not to jeopardize ongoing engagements with organised labour and other stakeholders on an acceptable framework that will not expose the ordinary Nigerian to any hardship.
While cautioning petroleum products marketers not to engage in arbitrary price increase or hoarding of petrol in order not to create artificial scarcity and unnecessary hardship for Nigerians, the Corporation urged motorists to avoid panic buying as there was enough stock of petrol to keep the nation well supplied for over 40 days.
Furthermore, the NNPC called on relevant regulatory authorities to step up monitoring of the activities of marketers with a view to sanctioning those involved in products hoarding or arbitrary increase of pump price.  …cautions against hoarding, panic buying Regina Otokpa, Abuja Contrary to speculations of an imminent increase in the price of Premium Motor Spirit (petrol), the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC) has said there were no such plans to increase the ex-depot price of petrol in March, 2021. A press release by… February 28, 2021 In "News" …seeks sanction for marketers hoarding products Notwithstanding the rise in the price of crude oil in the international market, the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC) has ruled out any increment in the price of Premium Motor Spirit (PMS) otherwise known as petrol in February. T he corporation explained that the… February 19, 2021 In "News" Premium Motor Spirit (PMS) also known as petrol is to sell for as much as N230 per litre in March, fuel marketers declared yesterday.   This came as panic buying and fuel hoarding rocked many filling stations in Lagos and Abuja, making queues to resurface in the two cities.  … March 1, 2021 In "News"