…as inflation hits 2,665% Venezuela this week is rolling out larger-denomination banknotes as hyperinflation batters the crisis-stricken South American country’s bolivar currency.
Bills worth 200,000 and 500,000 bolivars – worth just 10 and 27 U.S. cents, respectively, at the current exchange rate – began to circulate on Monday, according to Reuters witnesses.
Venezuela’s central bank said this month it also planned to roll a bill worth 1 million bolivars, just 50 U.S. cents, reports Reuters.
The highest-denomination bill had previously been 50,000 bolivars. Annual inflation in the once-prosperous OPEC nation was running at 2,665% in January, contributing to chronic shortages of cash.
“These bills in a few months will not be worth anything anymore, because in this country prices rise very quickly,” said Rafael Alvarez, a healthcare worker who left a bank carrying one 200,000 bolivar bill and four bills worth 50,000 bolivars each. All that is equivalent to just 20 U.S. cents.
The central bank did not respond to a request for comment.
In addition to the higher-denomination bills, President Nicolas Maduro is seeking to boost digital payments in the face of the cash shortage.
While Venezuelans use debit cards for many day-to-day transactions, some services – namely public transit – still only accept cash.
“These new bills will not resolve the cash crisis. They will only pay for transit fare,” said Evelyn Mendoza, a 47-year-old cook, as she waited in a long line to withdraw cash from a bank in the capital, Caracas.  The dollar held steady against a basket of currencies on Tuesday as financial markets braced for the first U.S. presidential debate, while traders also tracked developments on the U.S. stimulus bill. The dollar index was unchanged at 94.209, drifting away from a two-month high of 94.745 reached last week,… September 29, 2020 In "Business" The Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) yesterday announced that it had introduced “Special Bills” as part of efforts to “deepen the financial markets and avail the monetary authority with an additional liquidity management tool.” The apex bank stated this in a circular signed by its Director, Banking Supervision, Mr. Bello… December 3, 2020 In "Business" Last week’s announcement by the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN), that it had introduced special bills to the financial system, is yet another policy measure by the apex bank to ensure financial stability and economic growth in the country, writes TONY CHUKWUNYEM The slump in the price of oil (the… December 9, 2020 In "Business"