 President Muhammadu Buhari is currently presiding over the first National Security Council meeting being attended by the new Service Chiefs. Buhari is meeting with the security heads alongside other top government officials at the presidential villa in Abuja. The meeting is taking place about a month after the new Service Chiefs assumed office on January 26. The security chiefs, Lucky Irabor, Chief of Defence Staff; Ibrahim Attahiru, Chief of Army Staff; Awwal Gambo, Chief of Naval Staff; and Isiaka Amao, Chief of Air Staff, arrived at the villa about 10 am. Those present at the meeting are Vice-President Yemi Osinbajo; Boss Mustapha, Secretary to the Government of the Federation (SGF); Ibrahim Gambari; Chief of Staff to the President, and Babagana Monguno, National Security Adviser. Also, present are heads of other security agencies including the Nigerian Police Force, Department of State Services (DSS), National Intelligence Agency (NIA) and some ministers. The meeting is being held hours after 279 schoolgirls abducted from their school in Zamfara state were released. The abduction on February 26 was the latest in a series of attacks by bandits across schools in the northern part of the country. It is also part of a bigger security problem affecting most parts of the country, particularly in the north where bandits and Boko Haram insurgents have continued to terrorise residents.   Top (pix: buhari, Osinbajo with service Chiefs) President Muhammadu Buhari is currently presiding over Security Council meeting at the Council Chamber, Presidential Villa, Abuja. In attendance are the Vice President, Prof. Yemi Osinbajo, the Chief of Staff to the President, Professor Ibrahim Gambari, the Secretary to the Government of the… August 4, 2020 In "News" President Muhammadu Buhari is presiding over the National Security Council meeting in the State House, Abuja. The meeting, which holds quarterly, is coming amidst ongoing unrest in different parts of the country. In attendance are Vice President Yemi Osinbajo; Secretary to the Government of the Federation Boss Mustapha; Chief… October 22, 2020 In "Top Stories" The President Muhammadu Buhari, and the nation’s security chiefs are currently meeting at the Presidential Villa, Abuja. Relevant ministers are also attending the National Security Council meeting. Security chiefs in attendance include the Chief of Defence Staff, General Gabriel Olonisakin; Chief of Army Staff, Lt. Gen. Tukur Buratai; Chief… November 17, 2020 In "News"