 Military forces are said to have foiled a fresh attempt by armed bandits to kidnap aviation workers residing in the staff quarters of the Federal Airports Authority of Nigeria (FAAN) at the Kaduna airport.
This is coming barely two weeks a similar attempt was made with the kidnap of about 13 staff including a staff of Nigeria Airspace Management Agency (NAMA) and his entire family and that of Nigerian Meteorological Agency (NIMET) when the bandits attacked previously.
The recent foiled attempt which occurred Sunday morning attracted a gun battle between the bandits and the military who stormed the airport to rescue the victims.
According to reports the bandits, just like before, may have again gained access into the quarters through the runways 23 and 05.
On gaining access to the quarters, the bandits were reported to have headed straight to their alleged target flashing touch lights to locate their way to their victims
Staff living in the junior and senior quarters are currently said to be leaving the quarters to look for residences somewhere outside the airport environment where they will feel safe.
The Managing Director of FAAN, Capt. Rabiu Yadudu, had insisted after the first assault that the Kaduna Airport will not be closed for operations, due to the attack.  Gunmen in their numbers, on Saturday, invaded the Federal Airport Authority of Nigeria (FAAN) Staff Quarters in Kaduna abducting a whole family of six and three other persons. Among those taken were a woman and her two children.   Sunday Telegraph learnt that the attack, which lasted for hours following… March 7, 2021 In "News" The Nigerian Army has claimed that, “troops of Quick Response Force of 1 Division, Nigerian Army, yesterday foiled attempt by armed bandits to kidnap students of Turkish International Secondary School located in Rigachikun, Kaduna State.” Acting Director of Army Public Relations (DAPR), Brig-Gen. Mohammed Yerima, said this in a statement,… March 13, 2021 In "News" Scores of students from the Government Science Secondary School Kankara in Katsina State, North-West Nigeria have been reportedly abducted by bandits during an attack on the school Friday night. The principal of the school, Usman Abubakar, who confirmed the development to ait.live in a phone call, said the bandits… December 12, 2020 In "Top Stories"