As part of efforts to restore lasting peace in the Sahel region, the Organisation of Military Sports in Africa has secured the support of the Minister of Youth and Sports Development Chief Sunday Dare to stage the Sahel Games in October.  Speaking when the President of the Organisation of Military Sports in Africa Brigadier General Maikano Abdullahi, who paid him a visit in his office in Abuja, Chief Dare said ” I congratulate you on your election and for carrying the ministry along. I was not surprised that you won.  The discipline in the Army is most needed by athletes to succeed. The Nigerian Armed Forces have a rich history of producing great athletes that have made this country proud. I believe you will use your position to further develop sports in the Armed Forces.  “As a ministry, we are ready to play our rolein theorganisation of theSahel Games.” The minister further said” “we are proud that Nigerians are occupying key positions in AFDB, WTO and also OMSA.   This is an addition to our development as a nation. Your election will add value to our sports and I believe you will make the Military and the country proud. Sports promotes peace and unity and it good to see the balance between force and sports.”  In his remarks, Brigadier General Abdullahi said:” I thank the Honourable Minister for your support towards my election. I was elected through unanimous votes from members.  This gives me confidence to work for the overall development of Military Sports in our country and Africa. My immediate task is to organize the Sahel Games coming up in October with 8 countries participating.”  •Warns against breaching protocols   …as he directs clubs to implement licensing control   The Minister of Youth and Sports Development, Sunday Dare, has commended President Muhammadu Buhari and the Presidential Task Force on COVID-19 for reopening football and team sports behind closed doors in line with COVID- 19 guidelines.… September 6, 2020 In "Sports" At the weekend, the Minister of Sports, Sunday Dare, commended President Muhammadu Buhari and the Presidential Task Force (PTF) on COVID-19 for reopening football and team sports behind closed doors in line with COVID-19 guidelines.   National Coordinator of PTF, Dr. Sani Aliyu, had on Thursday announced the reopening of… September 8, 2020 In "Editorial" The Federal Government has handed the President of the Nigeria Football Federation (NFF), Amaju Melvin Pinnick an unqualified backing in his quest to win a seat on the FIFA Council – the highest decision-making organ in world football – at next week’s Confederation of African Football (CAF) elections in Rabat,… March 4, 2021 In "Sports"