 All remaining restrictions in New Zealand’s largest city Auckland have been lifted after no locally transmitted cases of coronavirus were reported for two weeks, Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern said on Friday.
Ardern imposed a seven-day lockdown on the city of 1.7 million after a cluster of cases were detected domestically. The lockdown was eased earlier this month but some restrictions were retained, including limits on large public gatherings under an alert level 2 setting, reports Reuters.
Ardern said the city will now join the rest of the country in alert level 1, which has no restrictions on gatherings or activity.
“I know everyone in Auckland will be looking forward to a weekend with fewer restrictions,” Ardern said at a news conference.
Swift public health measures combined with aggressive contact tracing, border closures and compulsory quarantine for travellers have been credited with making New Zealand highly successful in keeping the pandemic from spreading.
The country has had about 2,000 cases and 26 deaths linked to coronavirus so far.
New Zealand started its national rollout of vaccines last month and expects to inoculate its entire population by the end of the year.  New Zealand has put its largest city back into lockdown after recording four new Covid-19 cases, ending a 102-day streak without a local infection. A three-day lockdown was swiftly imposed in Auckland after the cases were confirmed, reports the BBC. The four new cases are all members of a… August 12, 2020 In "News" New Zealand's Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern said on Saturday that the country's biggest city, Auckland, will be put into a seven-day lockdown from Sunday after a coronavirus community case of unknown origin was recorded. The rest of New Zealand will be put into Level 2 restrictions that limit… February 27, 2021 In "News" ...as Brazil's cases top 3.4m, death toll nears 110,000 New Zealand said it would increase the number of defence personnel at its quarantine facilities and border to beat any further spread of COVID-19, as it reported five new cases in the community on Wednesday. Around 500 more defence personnel will… August 19, 2020 In "News"