Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC), Mr. Abdulrasheed Bawa, yesterday, testified before an Ikeja High Court, Lagos as a prosecution witness over an alleged N1.4 billion oil subsidy fraud case. Bawa testified in a case involving Nadabo Energy and its Chairman, Abubakar Peters. This is one of the fraud cases that Bawa had investigated as an operative of the EFCC. The defendants are being charged for allegedly obtaining the sum of N1.4 billion from the Federal Government as oil subsidy, using forged documents. The defendants are also accused of inflating the quantity of Premium Motor Spirit (PMS) purportedly supplied to the Federal Government to 14,000 metric tonnes. While led in evidence by the Lead EFCC Counsel, Mr. Seidu Atteh, Bawa narrated to the court how he investigated the case. According to the witness, “I analysed some electronic mail correspondences and found out that, contrary to their claims, the defendants took only approximately six million litres of PMS on board the mother vessel, MT Evriduk, into their own chartered vessel, MT St. Vanessa. “E-mails further confirmed that the same quantity of PMS (six million litres) was discharged in Port Harcourt. The email also informed us that one Mr. Jideofor Akpan was the agent of the vessel (MT St. Vanessa). “We invited the said Mr. Akpan, and in the course of our interview with him, he confirmed to us (the EFCC) that the first defendant (Nadabo Energy), through the second defendant (Peters), chartered the vessel (MT St. Vanessa) and paid for it. “My lord, he volunteered the statement to us and also submitted several documents to us.” The EFCC boss further testified that during the interview, he presented the purported shipping documents, which the defendants submitted, to the Petroleum Products Price Regulatory Agency (PPPRA) for payment of subsidy to Mr. Akpan. “We presented it to him to confirm to us whether or not the vessel which he is the agent for, had anything to do with the vessel called MT American Express. “MT American Express is the vessel the defendant claimed to have given the product to his own vessel. “My Lord, Mr. Akpan confirmed to us that MT St. Vanessa had nothing to do with MT American Express, rather, St. Vanessa loaded product from MT Evriduk,” Bawa said. Bawa added that he wrote a letter of investigation to Petrocam, the trader that supplied the defendant with the petroleum product. “A request was made in the letter for all the financial and shipping documents in respect of transactions with Nadabo Energy. “My lord, Petrocam responded to our letter in writing, attaching all requested documents which included a pro-forma invoice, commercial invoice, letter of credit and bill of laden. “The EFCC also wrote a letter of investigations of activities to the Corporate Affairs Commission (CAC) to confirm the registration status of Nadabo Energy. “The CAC responded in writing by forwarding Certified True Copies (CTCs) of all the documents requested. “On receipt of the response, we studied it and found out that the 2nd defendant (Peters) is a shareholder as well as a director of the 1st defendant. “My lord, in furtherance to that, we invited two of the directors and shareholders of the first defendant, namely – Mr. Akeem Abalaka and one Mr. Sanni. “They both confirmed to us that although they are linked to the company, they are not involved in the contentious matter before this honourable court,” he said. During Bawa’s testimony, the EFCC sought to tender to the court, the CTCs of the documents it received from Petrocam and the CAC. Justice Christopher Balogun adjourned the case till April 28 for ruling and continuation of hearing.  The newly-appointed Chairman of the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC), Mr Abdulrasheed Bawa, Wednesday testified before an Ikeja High Court, Lagos as a prosecution witness over an alleged N1.4 billion oil subsidy fraud case. Bawa testified in a case involving Nadabo Energy and its Chairman, Abubakar Peters. This is,… March 10, 2021 In "News" The Court of Appeal, Lagos Division, has ordered the removal of the name of Governor Emmanuel Udom of Akwa Ibom State from the N1.4 billion money laundering charge filed against the President of the Nigerian Bar Association (NBA), Mr. Paul Usoro, by the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC). Usoro… July 18, 2020 In "News" AKEEM NAFIU reviewed activities of the judiciary in the outgoing year 2020 and concluded that some cases involving some politically exposed persons (PEPs) had made the third arm of government thick   For 362 days, the nation’s judiciary indeed got itself busy with cases involving high profile individuals, particularly… December 28, 2020 In "Law"