The National Drug Law Enforcement Agency (NDLEA) and the Ekiti State government have agreed to collaborate with other critical stakeholders on how to tackle the scourge of drug abuse in the state. This was disclosed in a communiqué issued yesterday at the end of a one-day town hall meeting with the theme ‘Walk away from drugs,’ organised by the state Ministry of Justice in collaboration with the NDLEA in Ado-Ekiti, the Ekiti State capital. Guest speaker at the meeting was the Chairman/ Chief Executive of NDLEA, Brig. General Mohamed Buba Marwa (Retd) and Governor Kayode Fayemi was represented by his deputy, Otunba Bisi Egbeyemi at the event attended also by the state deputy speaker, Hakeem Jamiu, first class monarchs, members of the state executive council, local government chairmen, CSOs, NGOs, women and youth groups among others. According to the communiqué, the NDLEA and the state government agreed on “the development of intelligence sharing network mechanism at the grassroots level with a view to dismantling the cultivation, manufacturing and use of illicit drugs and arrest the drug barons and their cohorts.” It reads: “The adoption of a public health approach in collaboration with relevant authorities such as the public service, authorities of tertiary institutions and political heads for Confidential Drug Use Integrity Test to be carried out on the newly recruited civil servants including directors and permanent secretaries, newly admitted students and individuals seeking for political offices at all levels.” “Drug free certificate should be demanded before solemnization of marriage; establishment of drugs control prevention committee in all communities to comprise NGOs, Faith-based organisations, religious and opinion leaders, royal fathers, parents, youths and other relevant stakeholders; strong parent-child relationship should be explored to help the society restore the value system.”  Rivers State Governor, Nyesome Wike, has said that the country must address the menace of drug abuse to be able to surmount the current security challenges confronting the country.   The governor stated this when he received the Chairman/ Chief Executive of the National Drug Law Enforcement Agency, NDLEA, Brig.-General… February 24, 2021 In "News" Nigeria is sitting on the proverbial keg of gunpowder because of the prevalent drug use, particularly among its teeming youths. Though drug abuse is a global phenomenon, the situation in Nigeria has reached a crescendo. Drug use is prevalent and pervasive among students, especially in the tertiary institutions across the… February 4, 2021 In "Editorial" In its renewed war against drug abuse in the country, the National Drug Law Enforcement Agency (NDLEA) has seized illicit substances worth over N60 billion.   The seizure was made within the last six weeks, signalling the avowed commitment of the new chairman of the NDLEA, Brig- Gen. Buba Marwa… March 2, 2021 In "News"