The Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) has assured that henceforth, the anti-graft war will be intelligence-driven. Head of Media and Publicity of the EFCC, Mr. Wilson Uwujaren, quoted the commission’s chairman, Mr. Abdulrasheed Bawa, as making the declaration yesterday when he officially assumed duties at the headquarters in Abuja. Specifically, Bawa pledged to steer the organisation towards proactive and intelligence- led investigation. He said he would create a full-fledged directorate of intelligence, which duty will be to spearhead intelligence gathering, with a view to ensuring proactive response in the fight against corruption. He said: “We are going to digitalize our processes, and we are going to create a new full-pledged directorate of intelligence to enable us gather intelligence so that we will be proactive in our fight against economic and financial crimes; and by so doing, we will also provide the government with necessary quality advice that will lead to good governance.” Reiterating his remarks before the Senate at his confirmation hearing, the new EFCC boss promised a paradigm shift in the agency’s approach to anti-graft war, from fighting corrupt persons to fighting corruption.  The Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC), has assured that, henceforth, the anti-graft war will be intelligence-driven. Head of Media and Publicity of the EFCC, Mr. Wilson Uwujaren, quoted the Commission's Chairman, Mr. Abdulrasheed Bawa, as making the declaration, Friday, when he officially assumed duties at the headquarters in Abuja.… March 5, 2021 In "News" On Wednesday, February 24, the upper chamber of the National Assembly confirmed the nomination of Mr. Abdulrasheed Bawa as Chairman of the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC), opening a new vista in the history of the anti-graft agency. The confirmation followed a two-hour screening during which the nominee was… March 5, 2021 In "Editorial" …says, ‘I never sold seized assets’ Chairman-designate of the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC), Mr. Abdulrasheed Bawa, has pledged to reposition the agency to deliver on its core mandate of fighting corruption. Bawa made the pledge while being screened by the members of the upper chamber of the National… February 25, 2021 In "News"