The Vice Chairman of Christian Association of Nigeria (CAN), Southern States chapter, Archbishop George Amu, has commended President Muhammadu Buhari for telling America Nigeria’s stand on the controversial same-sex marriage.  In a statement in Lagos yesterday, Amu, who had earlier advised the Federal Government and the National Assembly against same-sex marriage, said Buhari had displayed his leadership quality and acumen for all Nigerians to emulate and for listening to public opinion. According to the archbishop, same-sex marriage means human race extinction and a crime against God and humanity.  He said: “It is God’s command that man and woman should live together as husband and wife in Genesis 2 verses 27 and 28, multiply and fill the entire world. “I have to thank President Muhamadu Buhari who, I have discovered, listens to public opinion and particularly for reacting positively to my advice on same-sex marriage. I must also appreciate Buhari the way he handled the matter in America. I want to say ‘big thank you’ to him.” Amu also thanked the National Assembly members for putting their house in order. He added: “I am not a politician, but a great political observer. Our politicians should have honour, integrity and respect for the authority. As a religious leader,  I am appealing to our lawmakers, they should strive to toe the line of the party through which they were elected into the legislature, so as to ensure orderliness and for this country      The Vatican said on Monday that priests cannot bless same-sex unions and that such blessings are not valid, in a ruling that greatly disappointed gay Catholics who had hoped their Church was becoming more welcoming under Pope Francis. In some countries, such as the United States and Germany, parishes… March 16, 2021 In "Faith" The fall of Baba Ijesha is the consequence of his untamed weakness and lack of discretion. He naively walked into the trap that he could smartly avoid. This is so shameful and regrettable. It is not in my character to kick someone who is already fallen to the ground but… May 7, 2021 In "Back Page Columnist" CAN: We are watching   Prominent Christian leaders in the Northern part of the country have warned that no harm must befall the Catholic Archbishop of Sokoto, Hassan Mathew Kukah.   The warning came as the leaders’ reaction following Jama’atu Nasril Islam (NJI's) recent castigation of the Bishop and string… January 10, 2021 In "News"