 Chief Whip of the Senate and former Governor of Abia State,  Senator Orji Uzor Kalu, on Monday night, said he is thankful to God to have been imprisoned for six months
He revealed that God allowed the conspiracy of his enemies because it is part of his life’s script.
Kalu made the revelations in Aba North Ward 1 during his ward to  ward campaign for the All Progressives Congress (APC)  candidate, Chief Mascot Uzor Kalu for the Aba North/South Federal Constituency by-election scheduled to hold on Saturday,  March 27.
The former governor was responding to statements from Abia State Governor, Okezie Ikpeazu and Senator representing Abia South Senatorial zone, Enyinnaya Abaribe accusing him of failure to recover from his Kuje Correctional Centre experience
Ikpeazu and Abaribe in their reactions consecutively had stated that Kalu’s suggestion that road projects in Aba are funded by the Niger Delta Development Commission ( NDDC) and Federal Government is a clear pointer that something is wrong with him.
“It is either he is yet to fully recover from the effects of his several months of incarceration at the Kuje prisons or he is just plain ignorant,” the governor’s press statement read.
But in his counter reaction, Kalu told a mammoth crowd in Aba that Abaribe was little minded to think he was ashamed of his prison experience.
He said Abaribe who he picked from the gutter and made him Deputy Governor was busy supplying petitions to his conspirators because they thought he would be President in 2023.
“My conspirators thought I would be President in 2023, so they decided to cut my journey short at all cost. Abaribe continued to supply petitions. But you see, these people are not God. They think I am ashamed to have gone to prison.  I am not and I don’t blame them because they don’t know my relationship with God.
“They are little minds and wicked people who have refused to do any project for their own people. They have kept a centre table for you and called it bridge. You can’t even pay common salaries and you are here swearing true to God, na me build this road. The only road the state is constructing is the 600 meters road in Eziukwu which they have been building since last six years; that’s one year 100 meters.
“Compare my village and these people’s village and you will see how shameless they are. If you can’t build your own village, is it my own you will build?”  Kalu queried to the  thunderous response of “Nooo!”
“This is 10 p.m. and I am here with you, can the governor or Abaribe come here? That is why in leadership you have to be with the people you are leading.  But they don’t understand this simple technique,  all the projects they claim to be doing are all on radio,  nothing on ground. Joseph went to prison, even Obasanjo went to prison. My going to prison is part of my life’s script and I am thankful God allowed it,” he added.
Recall that Kalu had last weekend lambasted the state government for laying claims to World Bank NEMAP projects, NNDC and Federal Government sponsored projects  in Abia as state government funded projects.
Speaking to a crowd in Igwebuike Hall in Aba South, Kalu had said,  The Federal Government is responsible for the N27 billion Ngwa Road and not the state government. “A government that is owing over 23 months to Abia Polytechnic, 22 months to Abia Teaching hospital, 18 months to Health Management Board, 27 months to Technical School, AroChukwu, amounting over N29 billion as arrears of salaries excluding pensions cannnot embark on a N27 billion road job. You cannot give what you don’t have.
“The Senator representing you in the Senate, Enyinnaya Abaribe has been in the Senate for 16 years and has done no single project in Abia South. He is busy speaking English as if English is what you need. You need infrastructure,  you need good roads, you need schools and hospitals.  Go to Abia North,  just a year in the Senate,  I have given them 19 roads, renovated schools, built hospitals with a lot of empowerment.
“Abaribe is so shameless that he doesn’t even have a road leading to his village in Umuekwensu,” he said.
Meanwhile, a social cultural group , OUK Movement has explained Kalu’s claim on the projects in Abia.
In a statement signed by the state Chairman of the movement,  Ndukwe Agu Agu Orji,  the movement noted that Abia State cannot execute a job of N27 billion  project with only N500 million and wants Abians to be hoodwinked into praising them.
“Governance is not  only about resurfacing 400 to 600 meters of road or commissioing NNDC projects as state government projects. The responsiblty of securing the N27 billion loan from the World Bank was fully undertaken by the Federal Government. The resolution authorizing  the borrowing is sourced and approved by the National Assembly and the final loan agreement signed by the Federal Ministry of Finance for onward lending to the states.
“These loans are covered by the sovereign guarantee of the Federal Government hence the Federal Government is 100% responsible for the projects. The state government should stop telling lies. They should pay salaries first,” the group said.  Youths in Abia State have urged former Governor of Abia State and Senate Chief Whip, Dr. Orji Kalu to forgive Senate Minority Leader, Senator Enyinnaya Abaribe over derogatory statements against Kalu and his family members in a book titled "Made in Aba" authored by Abaribe.   Under the auspices of… March 7, 2021 In "News" Youths in Abia State have urged former Governor of Abia State and Senate Chief Whip, Dr. Orji Kalu to forgive Senate Minority Leader, Senator Enyinnaya Abaribe over derogatory statements against Kalu and his family members in a book titled "Made in Aba" authored by Abaribe. Under the auspices of… March 6, 2021 In "News" The Senate Chief Whip and Senator for Abia North, Dr. Orji Uzor Kalu, has commiserated with the government and people of Abia State over the passing of a member of House of Representatives for Aba North and Aba South federal constituency, Hon. Ossy Chinedu Prestige. Senator Kalu, in a condolence… February 11, 2021 In "Metro & Crime"