*Arrive Government House, Gusau
at 5am The schoolgirls kidnapped from Government Girls Secondary School, Jangebe in Talatu-Mafara local government area of Zamfara State have been released.
Over 300 of the schoolgirls were kidnapped after gunmen invaded the school in the wee hours of the morning last Friday.
There was speculation about their release at the weekend, but the Zamfara state government dismissed the rumour as fake news.
But late on Monday, the state government announced that the schoolgirls have been released.
”Alhamdulillah! It gladdens my heart to announce the release of the abducted students of GGSS Jangebe from captivity. This follows the scaling of several hurdles laid against our efforts. I enjoin all well-meaning Nigerians to rejoice with us as our daughters are now safe,” Bello Matawalle, the governor, tweeted.
The girls arrived Gusau, the state capital, at 5am Tuesday morning in a number of buses.
Addressing them in Government House, Zamfara Governor Bello Matawalle said they should take their ordeal in good faith and that the enemies would be shamed.  The kidnapped schoolgirls of Government Secondary School in Jangebe, Zamfara State have been released. It was learnt that they were in the palace of the Emir of Anka, from where they would be transported to Gusau, the state capital. Bandits had on Friday morning kidnapped over 300 schoolgirls at… February 28, 2021 In "Top Stories" President Muhammadu Buhari yesterday issued a stern warning that the armed forces have the capacity to crush the bandits in their hideouts but were hamstrung by rules of engagements. He also hinted that fear of heavy casualties was stopping the Federal Government from crushing the bandits, who reportedly abducted over… February 27, 2021 In "News" President Muhammadu Buhari has assured Nigerians that last Friday’s abduction of female students from Government Girls’ Science Secondary School, Jangebe in Zamfara State will be the last to happen.   The president spoke  yesterday in in Gusau, the Zamfara State capital, through Minister of Aviation, Senator Hadi Sirika, who led… March 1, 2021 In "News"