 The Nigeria Football Federation (NFF) has announced that the Confederation of African Football (CAF) has cleared Super Eagles forward, Alex Iwobi, to play in Nigeria’s game against Lesotho.
NFF disclosed this in a tweet on Tuesday, hours before the African Cup of Nations qualifier which will be played at the Teslim Balogun Stadium in Lagos today.
It had earlier been reported that officials of the Super Eagles team questioned Iwobi’s COVID-19 positive test result that forced the Everton FC man to miss Nigeria’s AFCON qualifier against the Benin Republic last Saturday.
The 24-year-old was replaced by Galatasaray’s Henry Onyekuru in the game that ended 1-0 in favour of the Eagles.
The test result also meant that Iwobi, who immediately went into isolation, may not feature in the team’s game against Lesotho.
However, the NFF, in a tweet on Tuesday morning, announced that further tests carried out on the player returned negative.
“Update: @NGSuperEagles forward, @alexiwobi has tested negative after further COVID-19 tests were conducted,” the tweet read.
Hours later, the Federation revealed that Iwobi will feature in the game against Lesotho after he was cleared by CAF.
“Update: CAF clears @alexiwobi to play today’s game against Lesotho,” NFF tweeted.  The Nigeria Football Federation (NFF) has announced that Super Eagles player, Alex Iwobi, has tested negative for COVID-19. It had earlier been reported that officials of the Super Eagles team questioned Iwobi’s COVID-19 positive test result that forced the Everton FC man to miss Nigeria’s African Cup of Nations… March 30, 2021 In "Sports" The March 30th 2021 Africa Cup of Nations qualifier between Nigeria's Super Eagles and Lesotho looks doubtful following the surging number of reported COVID-19 cases in the African country. Lesotho Football Association, LeFA has announced an immediate suspension of football activities in the Mountain Kingdom due to the surging number… January 29, 2021 In "Sports" …as Nigeria beats Benin 1-0 in Port Novo   The Super Eagles of Nigeria on Saturday qualified for the 2022 Africa Cup of Nations in Cameroon after the match between Lesotho and Sierra Leone ended goalless. The team however went ahead to beat Squirrels of Benin 1-0 to confirm suoremacy… March 28, 2021 In "Sports"