 Bilabiri  1 and 2 communities  in Ekeremor Local Government Area of Bayelsa State on Sunday appealed to the Joint Military Force deployed to protect oil facilities in the Niger Delta region to deploy their surveillance boats  to the community in order fish out miscreants.
According to a letter to the Commander of the JTF by the community leadership, they had resolved to rid the area of sea pirates, militants, oil thieves and kidnappers who bring the name of the area to disrepute.
According to  the letter made available to newsmen  in Yenagoa, it was an expression of the people of Bilabiri to support government efforts at maintaining a peaceful atmosphere for legitimate economic activities.
The letter  which was signed by Chief Peter Pinne, Amananawei (Paramount Ruler) in Bilabiri 1, Chief Minna Fun, Amananawei of Bilabiri 2, Mr David Bazigha, Community Development Committee (CDC) Chairman, Bilabiri 1 and Mr Esau Joshua, CDC Chairman Bilabiri 2 noted that the entire settlement comprising youths, women and elders were unanimous in their resolve to stamp out criminality and pledged their support to aid the JTF to achieve its mandate.
They noted that the miscreants had burnt down the palace of the monarch, engaged in kidnappings and other criminal activities that undermined the security of the oil-rich community.
They noted that internal efforts to check the nefarius activities of the miscreants within the area thrugh the established traditional mechanisms were rebuffed.  Leadership of Bilabiri Kingdom in Ekeremor Local Government Area of Bayelsa State at the weekend warned the people of neighbouring Letugbene community to steer clear of Tunu Oil Wells 4 & 5 located in Bilabiri Kingdom in the interest of peace.   The warning followed a protest by the people… August 10, 2020 In "Metro & Crime" Pauline Onyibe, Yenagoa The Bayelsa State government has  called on security agencies to expedite action on the arrest, proper investigation and prosecution of all those responsible for  the killing of  Frank Seide of Bilabiri 2 Community in Ekeremor Local Government Area of the state. Restating its determination to deal… April 5, 2021 In "Metro & Crime" Some Bayelsa State monarchs under the auspices of Paramount Rulers Forum for Oil Host Communities in the Niger Delta, have   commended President Muhammadu Buhari for the ongoing forensic audit of the Niger Delta Development Commission (NDDC).     The monarchs made the commendation in a letter to the President dated… June 29, 2020 In "News"