A man was shot dead yesterday while several others were injured when factions of the National Union of Road Transport Workers (NURTW) clashed in Akure, Ondo State.  This came two days after members of the factions clashed at the Owode area of the state, causing injuries to many people. Yesterday’s victim, Ademola    Adegoyegun, was killed at the old garage area of Akure.  He was a member of the NURTW. Sources said pandemonium broke out early in the day when a faction was planning to oust the suspended state Chairman of the NURTW, Mr. Jacob Adebo, popularly called Idajo.  A faction said to be Owo group had planned to remove Adebo from office because he had completed his four years tenure. They claimed it was their turn to pro duce the next NURTW chairman. Yesterday’s clash paralysed social and commercial activities.  Many commuters were stranded while vehicle owners had to make detours to prevent being caught in the melee.  The state Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO), Mr. Tee Leo Ikoro, said the command had deployed its men to strategic areas of the town to stop further breakdown of law and order.  He said the command was joined by men of the Nigeria Security and Civil Defence Corps (NSCDC) to curb the violence among the rival unions  A number of persons are feared dead as commercial drivers are currently disrupting socio-economic activities in Akure, Ondo State. It was learnt that the crisis involved factions of the drivers’ union known as National Union of Road Transport Workers (NURTW). “The drivers, armed with dangerous weapons, are currently attacking… March 9, 2021 In "Metro & Crime" One person was r e p o r t e d l y killed when two factional members of the National Union of Road Transport Union (NURTW) clashed over ticketing at Idumota, Lagos Island on Monday.   It was learnt that the clash was between Kunle Poly boys and loyalists… July 15, 2020 In "Metro & Crime" Babatope Okeowo reports that the people of Ondo State, especially the low income earners, have been groaning over the 100 per cent hike in intra-city transport fare by members of the National Union of Road Transport Workers   Despite the promises made by government at all levels to mitigate the… February 24, 2021 In "City Life"