  President Muhammadu Buhari has expressed “overwhelming joy” over the release of abducted female students in Zamfara State.
Reacting to the development which happened in the wee hours of Tuesday, the President said: “I join the families and people of Zamfara State in welcoming and celebrating the release of these traumatized female students.”
Buhari said he was excited that their ordeal came to a happy end without any incident, adding that “being held in captivity is an agonizing experience not only for the victims but also their families and all of us.”
However, while celebrating the release of the students, the President called for greater vigilance by the people so that human intelligence could be collected early enough to nip the bandits’ plans in the bud.
He warned that the time has come to reverse, completely, the grim and heartbreaking incidents of kidnapping.
“Ransom payments will continue to prosper kidnapping,” he warned while urging the Police and the Military to go after the kidnappers and bring them to justice.  President Muhammadu Buhari yesterday issued a stern warning that the armed forces have the capacity to crush the bandits in their hideouts but were hamstrung by rules of engagements. He also hinted that fear of heavy casualties was stopping the Federal Government from crushing the bandits, who reportedly abducted over… February 27, 2021 In "News" President Muhammadu Buhari has assured Nigerians that last Friday’s abduction of female students from Government Girls’ Science Secondary School, Jangebe in Zamfara State will be the last to happen.   The president spoke  yesterday in in Gusau, the Zamfara State capital, through Minister of Aviation, Senator Hadi Sirika, who led… March 1, 2021 In "News" ...on day 3, kidnappers gave us kuli kuli, uncooked potatoes •Don't be deterred by your bitter experience, Buhari tells students •FG: Boko Haram lied, schoolboys were kidnapped by bandits ...President coordinated operation leading to rescue •Come clean on abduction –PDP •Shehu admits error on number Fresh insights emerged last night… December 19, 2020 In "News"