The United Nations International Children’s Emergency Fund (UNICEF) has raised the alarm over shortage of water to about 2 billion people in the world. In a statement to mark Water Day by UNICEF’s representative in Nigeria, Mr. Peter Hawkins, said more than 1.42 billion people including 450million children are living in areas of high or extremely high water vulnerability.  The UNICEF said one in five children worldwide did not have enough water to meet their everyday needs. In Nigeria, Hawkins said not less than 26.5million children, representing about 29 per cent were experiencing high or extremely high water vulnerability. Hawkins said: “The world’s water crisis is not coming – it is here, and children are its biggest victims. “When wells dry up, children are the ones missing school to fetch water.  When droughts diminish food supplies, children suffer from malnutrition and stunting. “When floods hit, children fall ill from waterborne illnesses. And when water is not available in Nigerian communities, children cannot wash their hands to fight off diseases.”  Hawkins said the UNICEF data had shown that children in more than 80 countries live in areas with high or extremely high water vulnerability.  He said Eastern and Southern Africa had the highest proportion of children living in such areas, with more than half of children – 58 per cent – facing difficulty accessing sufficient water every day. Meanwhile, attention of government at all levels in Nigeria has been drawn to unpleasant con  strikesequences that would spring up due to current poor strategies in evaluation of water resources for productive use as being perpetrated by those in the position of authorities. Water and Development expert, Micheal Ale at the weekend tasked the Federal Government on a more productive value of water for development in all ramifications. The water expert, who doubles as Co-founder  Global Initiative for Nigeria Development (GIND), yesterday in a press statement in Ado-Ekiti to commemorate this year World Water Day decried the poor value and under- utilization of water resources for development purposes in the country. Ale said: “There are five different perspective of valuing water–Valuing water sources – natural water resources and ecosystems. All water is generated by ecosystems. And all the water we abstract for human use eventually returns to the environment along with any contaminants we have added.  The water cycle is our most important ‘ecosystem service’. “Higher value must be given to protecting the environment to ensure a good quality water supply and build resilience to shocks such as flood and drought  As Nigeria joined other countries in the world to mark the World Children’s Day 2020, UNICEF Representative in Nigeria, Peter Hawkins has urged governments, parents, guardians, and other stakeholders to listen to children with a view to pave the way and enable them explore their potentials. He made the call at an… November 30, 2020 In "Metro & Crime" As Nigeria joined other countries  to mark the World Children’s Day 2020, UNICEF Representative in Nigeria, Peter Hawkins has urged governments, parents, guardians, and other stakeholders to listen to children with a view to pave the way and enable them explore their potentials. He made the call at an event in Lagos,… November 30, 2020 In "News" The United Nations Children’s Fund (UNICEF) and the World Food Programme (WFP) have called on West and Central African countries to stem the tide of acute malnutrition in children as the impact of COVID-19 becomes intense.   According to the UN agencies, up to 15.4 million children aged five and… July 21, 2020 In "News"