Youths operating under the aegis of Imo Youths for Good Governance, Friday asked the state Governor, Senator Hope Uzodinma, to sack his Special Adviser on Special Duties, Chinasa Nwaneri, and his Senior Special Assistant on Youth Affairs, Eric Uwakwe, for allegedly mobilising thugs to attack the former governor of the state, Senator Rochas Okorocha. Okorocha and his loyalists were attacked at Royal Spring Palm Estate, Owerri, on February 21. At a press conference in Owerri, the state capital, the Board Chairman of the group, Prince Wisdom Nwauwa, asked the governor to handover the two aides to the police for prosecution. Nwauwa said the alleged attack on Okorocha, a serving senator of the Federal republic “is another sad commentary on our democracy.” The youth threatened to petition the Inspector-General of Police, Adamu Mohammed, if the governor fails to handover the two aides to the police for prosecution at the expiration of a seven-day ultimatum. Nwauwa said: “We are issuing a seven-day ultimatum to the governor of Imo State, Hope Uzodinma, to sack his Special Adviser on Special Duties, Chinasa Nwaneri.  Fourteen associates of former Governor Rochas Okorocha were yesterday arraigned and granted bail in the sum of N70 million.   One of the suspects, Darlington Ibekwe, who was also docked alongside 13 others for breaking into a property sealed by government, slumped inside the courtroom.   Okorocha was arrested and… February 23, 2021 In "News" Former Governor of Imo State, Senator Rochas Okorocha, was yesterday arrested by the police on the order of Imo State government for forcibly breaking into a property sealed by the state government. Police spokesman, Orlando Ikeokwu, confirmed to newsmen that the former governor is being held at the Imo State… February 22, 2021 In "News" The Northern Youths and Elders Awareness Forum (NYEAF) has said an attack on the former governor of Imo State and Senator representing Imo West Senatorial District, Rochas Okorocha, is an attack on the youths and elders of the Northern geo-political zone. The 19 Northern states stated this yesterday in Abuja… February 27, 2021 In "News"