 Pillar of Sports in Africa and Chief Whip of the Senate, Dr. Orji Kalu has joined other soccer enthusiasts across the country to celebrate the qualification of the national team, the Super Eagles to the 2021 African Cup of Nations (AFCON) scheduled to hold in Cameroon.
Describing the victory of the national team as a reassurance of the readiness of the players to come out victorious in  the 2021 AFCON, Kalu hailed the players for their commitment and determination in making Nigeria proud.
He also commended the national coach, Gernot Rohr and other officials for the expertise and experience deployed in managing the national team, adding that the Super Eagles is a team of talented and skillful players.
In a goodwill message, the former Abia State Governor stressed that soccer remains a unifying factor among Nigerians regardless of tribe, religion and political affiliation.
“The national team having qualified for the 2021 African Nations Cup (AFCON) has demonstrated their capacity in the game of soccer.
“I am optimistic that the 2021 AFCON will also be a good outing for Super Eagles.”
Kalu while congratulating Nigerians on the victory of the national team, advocated private sector participation in sports development in Nigeria.  In the recent FIFA window, Nigeria played a back-toback game with Sierra Leone but surprisingly, the Super Eagles picked just two of the six points at stake, same as the Leone Stars. And so the six points recorded in two opening games last year in the African Nations Cup qualifiers… November 26, 2020 In "Editorial" South Africa Premier League side, Kaizer Chiefs, on Wednesday confirmed Super Eagles goalkeeper Daniel Akpeyi as one of the club players who has already received invitation for the Africa Cup of Nations qualifiers between Nigeria and Sierra Leone slated for November. Although, Super Eagles handler, Gernot Rohr, has not unveiled… October 29, 2020 In "Sports" Former Super Eagles goalkeeper, Dosu Joseph has told coach Gernot Rohr that he must deliver the 2022 African Cup of Nations trophy before he could be counted among the successful senior national team handlers. Dosu in a chat with journalists said Rohr, who signed a two-year contract extension that will… December 18, 2020 In "Sports"