British Airways (BA) has advised Nigerians intending to travel to the United Kingdom from Lagos and Abuja to access up-to-date and compulsory COVID-19/ health information and requirements before departing Nigeria.  The BA management in Lagos said the advice became necessary as many travellers come to the airport without the necessary requirements thereby causing unnecessary flight delays.  “It is mind boggling to see that so many people still come to the airport without the requirements. Nigeria is not on the red list but there are important protocols they need to follow and COVID-19 test and documentations passengers need to get before they can travel to the UK.  The carrier will be fined if a passenger travels to the UK without the necessary documentation.  This will also cause stress for the travellers” , a BA staff said. The United Kingdom is taking steps to help stop the spread of COVID-19 by asking all persons (including UK nationals and residents) arriving in the UK to provide proof of a negative COVID-19 test taken within 3 days of departure to the UK. To protect your health and others’, the country asks that everyone must complete an online passenger locator form before arrival in the United Kingdom while all arrivals must quarantine.  If you have travelled through a red list country in the last 10 days you must have a valid Managed Quarantine Facility (UK government approved) booked prior to departure.  Those coming from countries not on the red list quarantine in their own accommodation. Everyone is required to take a coronavirus test on days 2 and 8 of their quarantine. Intending travelers to the UK must have this booked prior to departure.  The new travel guidelines recently introduced by the United Kingdom to curtail the spread of deadly COVID-19 in the UK may have come late but the effect of the new rule would help to drastically reduce the scourge.   The two or multiple tests now required for people entering the… March 2, 2021 In "News" 30 countries’ll require approval before transiting The new travel policy by France and Netherlands that travelers from Nigeria and other countries wishing to travel to the United Kingdom through Europe would have to obtain transit visa is unsettling nerves in Nigeria’s aviation circles. While this ‘cumbersome’ travels to the UK… January 5, 2021 In "Business" ...to enforce penalties, revoke visas   The Presidential Task Force (PTF) on COVID- 19 has specified tougher measures for passengers coming into the country from the United Kingdom (UK) and South Africa. National Coordinator of the PTF, Dr. Sani Aliyu, disclosed this yesterday at a media briefing in Abuja.  … December 25, 2020 In "News"