 It is no longer news that the Super Eagles travelled by boat to Benin Republic for the African Nations Cup qualifier against Squirrels which was decided at the weekend.
Eagles won the match 1-0 courtesy of a late header by Paul Onuachu who hit the target three minutes into added time.
What is, however, news is that a telecommunications outfit, MTN, supported the round trip to Benin largely by providing two new boats and seven crew members for the trip.
“The two boats were the newest among about seven used by the NFF for the trip. This was because the players as main actors were prime in the arrangement of the federation,” an impeachable source close to the federation revealed.
The contingent, which included the NFF President Amaju Pinnick and 1st Vice Seyi Akinwunmi, travelled on Friday and returned on Sunday.
In addition, our source, who should know, also authoritatively, revealed that the telecommunications outfit also provided life insurance cover for all those who travelled for the match.
“After making use of the MTN lounge, we also took off from their jetty on Friday and also docked there on Sunday,” the source added.
It is believed that the chieftains of the telecommunications outfit are irked that the NFF has failed to acknowledge their company for supporting the team in the AFCON qualifier.  Gov, Pinnick charge team to enjoy boat trip The Super Eagles will leave Lagos for Porto Novo for their 2020 AFrican Cup of Nations qualifiers against Benin Republic slated for Saturday with playing beaming with confidence of clinching the AFCON ticket. The Nigeria Football Federation (NFF) on Thursday confirmed that… March 26, 2021 In "Sports" Super Eagles coach, Gernot Rohr and the Nigeria Football Federation NFF President, Amaju Pinnick yesterday led an advance party of Nigeria’s delegation to Benin Republic for Saturday’s Africa Cup of Nations AFCON decisive qualifying tie with the Squirrels of Benin. Rohr and Pinnick took the boat cruise from Apapa, Lagos… March 25, 2021 In "Sports" The list of Super Eagles players for the Nigeria/ Sierra Leone back-to-back fixtures came out a week ago with little or no surprises except for the number of natural midfielders invited. Oghenekaro Etebo of Galatasaray, Turkey; Frank Onyeka of FC Midtjylland, Denmark and Joseph Ayodele-Aribo of Glasgow Rangers, Scotland were… November 7, 2020 In "Sports"