 Adewumi Ademiju, Ado-Ekiti Ekiti State Governor, Dr Kayode Fayemi has congratulated the Senator representing Ekiti Central Senatorial District, Opeyemi Bamidele on his election as Chairman  of the Southern Senators Forum.
The Governor also congratulated
Senator Stella Oduah (Anambra North), who emerged Vice Chairman of the Forum, as well as other new officials elected on Wednesday.
Fayemi in a statement by his Chief Press Secretary, Yinka Oyebode, in Ado Ekiti on Thursday, said he was particularly happy at Senator Bamidele’s emergence, adding that he was convinced that the Ekiti Senator would bring his wealth of experience, dynamism and deep understanding of the Nigerian polity to bear on the new assignment.
The Chairman of the Nigeria Governors’ Forum (NGF), who described Senator Bamidele as a brilliant politician and seasoned administrator, said he looked forward to more strategic collaboration with the Southern Senators Forum, under the new leadership.  …inaugurates leadership of Southern Forum Deputy President of the Senate, Senator Ovie Omo-Age ge, yesterday, declared that members of the upper chamber of the National Assembly would remain committed to the unity of Nigeria despite the current challenges confronting the country. The declaration came on the heels of widespread insecurity… March 25, 2021 In "News" The late former Ondo State Governor, Evang. Bamidele Olumilua has been described as a leader who valued self-respect. Ekiti State Governor, Dr Kayode Fayemi, who made the remark, said Olumilua was never a contract-seeking individual seeking material acquisition. The governor said the late Olumilua never wavered from speaking the truth… August 28, 2020 In "Metro & Crime" Rancour persists as leaders battle for Ekiti PDP's soul   ADEWUMI ADEMIJU reports on the lingering crisis rocking the Ekiti State chapter of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), which has defied interventions by party stakeholders, especially in the South-West   The battle for the structures Ekiti State chapter of the… September 23, 2020 In "Politics"