Manchester City Sweat Merchant, Pep Guardiola, has said the Super Eagles of Nigeria have what it takes to be one of the surprise teams at the international level when actions resume later in the month.  Asked if there are national teams who could spring surprise at the international level outside Europe at the world football, Guardiola picked Nigeria, Senegal, Algeria and Ivory Coast among the teams that can shake the world at the next World Cup.  “We see some Africa teams like Algeria and Senegal as a serious threat then Nigeria is a very exciting team to watch when they play at their potential. They are about some of the teams you expect to spring surprise in the world,’’ he said.  Guradiola’s comments will no doubt pile more pressure on coach of the Nigerian team, Gernot Rohr, whose five year old tenure as coach has divided opinion among football followers in Nigeria. Many feel Super Eagles have under achieved due to the potentials in the team under the Franco-German coach while another section believe that the team is on the path to creating records.  The Super Eagles will on March 25th return for the Africa Cup of Nations qualifiers against Benin Republic in Cotonou and will a week later take on their Lesotho counterparts in Lagos.  AJIBADE OLUSESAN writes that Nigeria is fast losing her relevance in age-grade competitions both in Africa and on the world stage following poor performances of the various junior national teams in recent years. It is established that egg-heads at the Nigeria Football Federation aren’t quite worried about the trend because… January 9, 2021 In "Sports" Ex-international, Uche Okechukwu, has lamented the continuous building process of the Super Eagles by coach Gernot Rohr, as he called on the Nigeria Football Federation to try and ask questions from the coach. The rock solid defender in his playing days told our correspondent in a chance meeting in Aba,… November 20, 2020 In "Sports" Charles Ogundiya Ex-international, Ifeanyi Udeze, has advised Super Eagles coach, Gernot Rohr, to make newly appointed national team assistant coach, Joseph Yobo, the defensive trainer for the team.   While commending the Nigeria Football Federation for the appointment, Udeze said the appointment has shown former internationals that the country would… July 6, 2020 In "Sports"