…says several terrorist suspects killed, gun trucks destroyed Emmanuel Onani, Abuja The Nigerian Army has said that an officer and three soldiers were killed during a fierce encounter with “elements of Boko Haram Terrorists and their Islamic State West Africa Province (ISWAP) counterparts operating along the fringes of the Lake Chad and the Tumbus”.
It, however, noted that several of the suspected terrorists were neutralised by troops of Sector 3 Operation Lafiya Dole on Saturday.
New Telegraph had reported that an Acting Commanding Officer (CO), whose name was withheld, alongside at least 14 of his troops, died during the crossfire.
But in a statement by the Director, Army Public Relations (DAPR), Brig-Gen. Mohammed Yerima, the Service said the bloody encounter occurred after a successful clearance operation by troops within the fringes of the dreaded Sambisa forest.
“The combined troops of the Sector which were on clearance patrol along the fringes of the Lake Chad had advanced and cleared Daban Massara and Ali Sherifti villages among other settlements before they harbored for replenishment and retrofitting,” Yerima said.
According to him: “As they (troops) commenced the second phase of their operations and advancing along the Kukawa – Monguno road, about 14 kilometers to their base, they sighted BHTs/ISWAP gun trucks and swiftly commenced pursuit with heavy fire and deft manouver.
“In the course of the hot pursuit which was aided by air cover provided by the Air Task Team of Operation Lafia Dole, several terrorists were neutralized and their gun trucks destroyed.
“Unfortunately, however, one officer and three gallant soldiers paid the Supreme sacrifices while those wounded in action are currently receiving medical attention at 7 Division Medical Services and Hospital in Maimalari Cantonment.”  Two soldiers were killed, while four others were wounded during an encounter with suspected Islamic State of West Africa Province (ISWAP) terrorists on the Damboa-Maiduguri Road, Borno State. The Coordinator, Defence Media Operations (DMO), Major General John Enenche, who made the disclosure in a statement yesterday, said 17 terrorists, who… July 9, 2020 In "Metro & Crime" *Not true, we only lost two men, killed 17 terrorists - DHQ Not fewer than 20 soldiers have been killed and several other injured when suspected Boko Haram terrorists ambushed troops’ convoys in Borno State on Tuesday, sources have said. It was learnt that the incident occurred along Damboa/Maiduguri highway… July 8, 2020 In "News" In June, troops on clearance operations in the North- East theatre had 17 fierce encounters with suspected Boko Haram and Islamic State of West African Province (ISWAP) elements.   The Coordinator, Defence Media Operations (DMO), Major General John Enenche, who made the disclosure in a statement, noted that 75 of… July 6, 2020 In "Metro & Crime"