 Portugal temporarily suspended AstraZeneca COVID-19 shots on Monday, following on the heels of several other European countries amid concerns over possible serious side-effects.
Earlier, Spain, France, Germany and Italy had joined Denmark, Norway and several others in suspending use of the vaccine after reports of blood clots in some patients who had received the vaccine, reports Reuters.
Graça Freitas, head of the health authority DGS, told a news conference that although the side effects were “extremely severe”, they were “extremely rare”, adding no such cases ahd been reported in Portugal so far.
The World Health Organisation said there was no evidence that the incidents are caused by the vaccine developed by AstraZeneca, an Anglo-Swedish company, with Oxford University.
The EU’s EMA medicines regulator said it would meet on Thursday to analyse the situation and reaffirmed its view that the benefits of the drug outweigh the risks.
Portugal, which has suffered 814,513 cases and 16,694 deaths, has so far administered around 1.1 million vaccine doses, with the vast majority of shots administered being those produced by Pfizer-BioNTech.
Henrique Gouveia e Melo, the head of Portugal’s vaccination taskforce, said the AstraZeneca shots that have so far arrived in Portugal would be kept in storage until further notice.  Appolonia Adeyemi   Against the background that several European nations have suspended the use of Oxford-AstraZeneca vaccine following reports of blood clot incidents, the National Primary Health Care Development Agency (NPHCDA) has clarified that no such reactions have been reported from administering the vaccine in Nigeria. The Agency, which is… March 11, 2021 In "News" Ireland has temporarily halted its use of the Oxford/AstraZeneca jab after some reports of blood clots in vaccinated people. The move came after a review from the Norwegian Medicines Agency showed four new cases of "serious blood clotting in adults" had occurred after the jab, reports Sky News. Ireland's… March 14, 2021 In "News" Lagos State Governor, Mr Babajide Sanwo- Olu, his deputy, Dr Obafemi Hamzat, health workers and some journalists yesterday took the first injection of the Astra Zeneca COVID-19 vaccines. Sanwo-Olu took the injection at 3:03pm while Hamzat was injected about 3:10pm at the Infectious Disease Hospital (IDH), Yaba. Speaking after taking… March 13, 2021 In "News"