Nigeria’s foremost sports marketing outfit, Pamodzi has congratulated President of Nigeria Football Federation, Amaju Pinnick on his election into the Federation of International Football Association (FIFA) Executive Council.  Pinnick defeated Malawian FA President, Walter Nyamilandu, by 43 votes to eight during the CAF General Assembly held in Rabat, Morocco on Friday.
Mike Itemuagbor,Chief Executive Officer of Pamodzi says in a statement that Pinnick’s election into the decision making organ of world governing body for football is a reward for his hardwork and dedication to the development of football in Nigeria and the African continent.  ‘I wholeheartedly congratulate Amaju Pinnick on his well-deserved election. The manner of his victory shows his popularity among his colleagues in the Confederation of African Football executive council and congress.”  ”At Pamodzi we are not surprised by the giant leap Pinnick has made since the beginning of the last decade, rising from being the Chairman of Delta State Football Association and later Chairman, Delta State Sports Commission in 2010 before his election as President of Nigeria Football Federation and later one of CAF’s Vice Presidents.  ‘Like Leonardo da Vinci said people of accomplishment rarely sat back and let things happen to them. They went out and happened to things.  The Federal Government has handed the President of the Nigeria Football Federation (NFF), Amaju Melvin Pinnick an unqualified backing in his quest to win a seat on the FIFA Council – the highest decision-making organ in world football – at next week’s Confederation of African Football (CAF) elections in Rabat,… March 4, 2021 In "Sports" The Chief Executive Officer of Peachtree Communications Limited, Gboyega Okegbenro, has congratulated the President of the Nigeria Football Federation, Amaju Pinnick, over his election into the Federation of International Football Association Council at the weekend. The NFF boss was on Friday in Rabat, Morocco elected into the FIFA Council –… March 15, 2021 In "Sports" The Nigeria Football Federation (NFF) has described as untrue, a report in sections of the media that the Federation’s President, Mr Amaju Melvin Pinnick was selected as 5th Vice President of the Confederation of African Football at Friday’s 43rd Ordinary and Elective Assembly in Rabat, Morocco. NFF General Secretary, Dr… March 13, 2021 In "Sports"