A former Super Eagles player, Garba Lawal, has commended the country’s stars paining Europe with goals in recent times. At the weekend, Kelechi Iheanacho recorded a hattrick as Leicester City defeated Sheffield United 5-0 in the English Premier League. In France, Moses Simon scored the winner as his team, Nantes, defeated PSG 2-1 in an away encounter. Simy Nwankwo also recorded a brace in the colours of newly promoted Serie A side, Crotone, to bring his tally to 12 this term. Red-hot Paul Onuachu, in the Belgian Cup tie against Anderlecht recorded his 27th goal of the season in Gent’s 2-1 win. An elated Lawal has however charged players to bring their current form into the senior national team, the Super Eagles, as the Africa Nations Cup qualifiers draw near. The former international said: “It is very encouraging to see our players score goals abroad. I am particularly happy that this is happening every week and it means there is consistency. “I want these players to come and replicate the performances in Eagles shirts. We need Eagles to do better interc ontinental and global matches. They are great ambassadors for us in their teams and they should be good ambassadors of their teams in Eagles coulours especially with the crucial matches before us.”  Eagles are billed to take on Squirrels of Benin Republic on March 27 in Porto-Novo and four days later, take on Crocodiles of Lesotho at the Teslim Balogun Stadium in Lagos.  AJIBADE OLUSESAN writes that Nigeria is fast losing her relevance in age-grade competitions both in Africa and on the world stage following poor performances of the various junior national teams in recent years. It is established that egg-heads at the Nigeria Football Federation aren’t quite worried about the trend because… January 9, 2021 In "Sports" Nigeria has a record of good players who were great ambassadors of Africa. Over time, many players have exhibited talents that the world appreciated but in the 90s, the country had a cream of such players. We recall that at the time, the Eagles of the 90s were tagged as… July 17, 2020 In "Editorial" For the wrong reasons, Super Eagles striker and Napoli forward, Victor Osimhen, was in the news. He landed in trouble waters over disciplinary issues.       We are aware that Osimhen, still recovering from the injury, was granted permission to travel to Nigeria for the winter break where he… January 12, 2021 In "Editorial"