Governor Samuel Ortom of Benue State yesterday called on the Nigerian Air Force (NAF) to support ground troops through aerial patrols in the fight against criminals in parts of the state. The governor made the call when he received the Chief of Air Staff, Air Marshal Isiaka Amao and his delegation at the government house in Makurdi. He also called on the Chief of Air Staff to direct the tactical troop in Agatu to carry out some patrols outside the camp to help contain the insecurity in the area. Governor Ortom acknowledged the contributions of the Air Force to the Operation Whirl Stroke, which he said has restored relative peace in the state, pointing out that determined and patriotic Nigerians should support security agencies to secure the land. He expressed the hope that hiccups from the civil air operations, which had already commenced would soon be addressed for civil flight operations to resume. Chief of Air Staff, Air Marshal Isiaka Amao stated that he was in the state on a familiarisation visit to get acquainted with challenges of the Tactical Air Command, saying courtesy demanded that he paid homage to the governor. While appealing to the governor to wade into the land dispute between the command and host community for amicable resolution, the Chief of Air Staff said they had always restrained their personnel from any negative reaction even in the face of provocation. He pledged the sustained support of the Nigerian Air Force under his leadership in collaboration with other security chiefs to fight insecurity in the state and Nigeria at large.  Governor Samuel Ortom of Benue State Friday called on the Nigerian Air Force (NAF) to support ground troops through aerial patrols in the fight against criminals in parts of the state. The governor made the call when he received the Chief of Air Staff, Air Marshal Isiaka Amao and his… March 26, 2021 In "News" The Chief of Defence Staff (CDS), Maj-Gen. Lucky Irabor, yesterday, led other Service Chiefs on operational visit to Borno State, the epicentre of Boko Haram activities.   The CDS was accompanied by the Chief of Army Staff, Maj-Gen. Ibrahim Attahiru; Chief of Air Staff, Air Vice Marshal Isiaka Amao and… February 1, 2021 In "News" ....advocates more recruitment slots for A'Ibom in Air Force Governor Udom Emmanuel of Akwa Ibom State has donated a 30-hectare land for the proposed Air Traffic School to immortalise the former Chief of Air Staff, Air Marshall Nsikak Eduok. The Governor presented a Certificate of Occupancy for the property to… March 1, 2021 In "News"