Oba of Lagos, Oba Rilwan Akiolu, yesterday said he lost over $2 million and N17 million cash to the #EndSARS protests in October 2020. Akiolu spoke for the first time after his palace was desecrated and massively looted during the protests against police brutality tagged #EndSARS. Following the invasion of his palace by groups of armed youths, who looted all the valuables including his Staff of Office and the cars parked on the palace premises, it took the intervention of a team of armed soldiers to rescue the monarch from the protesters. During the nationwide protest that nearly grounded the country, a video which captured the moment some hoodlums broke into the Oba of Lagos palace, carting away dollars inside a coffin, had gone viral. In the video, some men were also seen running with a coffin full of dollars while others held dollars to their bosoms. But confirming the looting yesterday at the inauguration of Glover Memorial Hall, Lagos, Akiolu said though he had forgiven all those responsible for desecration of his palace, he hinted that valuable items, too numerous to recall, were carted away. He said about $2 million and N17 million cash was also carted away by the hoodlums. Akiolu said: “The incident that happened here on October 20-23rd is very saddening. We thank God that Lagos will continue to wax stronger and stronger by the grace of Allah…. Lagos will never lag behind, all Lagosians think of what you will contribute to make Lagos greater, not what will pay you selfishly.” Speaking further on the destruction in Lagos, Akiolu appealed to President Muhammadu Buhari to consider Lagos in the rebuild mission. According to him, despite catering for the needs of millions of Nigerians, Lagos lost so much in the #EndSARS protests. He added: “I appeal to our God-chosen Head of State to please in the name of God Almighty the destruction we suffered in Lagos was so enormous more than any other part of the country. About 130 buses, which the government is using to raise assets were burnt. The house of the parents of our governor was burnt, TVC, High Court, Port Authority were burnt. Particularly, those who did the Iga Iduganran (my palace), I can now say it publicly that they carted away from my palace $2 million in cash and N17 million. I’m now saying it publicly. I’m not a wealthy man, but I’m a contented person and Insha Allah, I will continue to be rich. “I have prayed to God that Father forgive them because they don’t know what they did. If they had known what that Iduganran means, they wouldn’t have done what they did.” Earlier, Akiolu had appealed to the leaders to show compassion. According to him, no matter how rich one is, nobody will take the wealth away from the earth when death comes. He said: “If you want to confirm the vanity of the world, hold N10,000, once you sleep off, the money will fall on the ground. Even the Bible says that only the foolish amass wealth.”  *Two months after mob invasion Rilwan Akiolu, the Oba of Lagos, is said to have returned to his palace on Friday — two months after a mob invasion during the #EndSARS crisis. In October, there were demonstrations against police brutality across the country, which was organised under the #EndSARS campaign.… January 2, 2021 In "Metro & Crime" Inspector General of Police (IG), Muhammed Adamu, yesterday commiserated with the people and government of Lagos State over the destruction in the state in the wake of the #EndSARS protests.   Adamu, who visited the state, lamented the low morale of the police in the country, especially in… November 4, 2020 In "Metro & Crime" Lagos yesterday slipped into a state of anomie as the Centre of Excellence literally became a ball of fire. The outbreak of violence, which started on Monday in different parts of the nation, continued yesterday, with more police stations, banks and media houses attacked and razed in Lagos State.  … October 22, 2020 In "Metro & Crime"