Total Nigeria PLC (TNPLC) has highlighted how its Truck Drivers’ Initiative is improving road safety in Nigeria with continuous training and a total of 4,889 truck audits in three years.  At a parley held online with the media, the company showed that it had conducted 2,181 truck driving trainings, 2,740 truck audits at its training facility in Ibadan, Oyo State, between 2017 and 2020. It also helped other players to conduct 2,149 truck audits between 2018 and 2020.  The company noted that the effort had resulted in zero fatalities and severe accidents, zero lost time injury and zero spill in cubic metres, amongst Total Nigeria PLC drivers since 2017, as the training has ensured “improved defensive driving skills; reduction of road accidents caused by driver behaviour and truck breakdown; handling of dangerous goods during transportation and public enlightenment on road safety topics and government regulatory agencies’ campaigns.”  Giving insight into the engagement, the Executive General Manager, Total Country Services, Bunmi Popoola-Mordi, noted that one of the areas that the company had been contributing enormously in the country was in the area of road safety and there was need to not only highlight the contributions, but to inform and galvanise stakeholders in order to get feedback for continuous improvement.  Fielding questions on the truck drivers’ initiative, the GM,HSEQ Mr. Muhyideen Nuradeen, maintained that while the company was in the business of making profit, it was more interested in saving lives, making the roads as safe as possible and making sure drivers return safely to their families and loved ones at the end of each business day.  The company explained that its stakeholders, including Federal Road Safety Corps (FRSC), Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC), Major Oil Marketers Association of Nigeria (MOMAN) and National Association of Road Transport Owners (NARTO), were being involved in the initiative.  In his remarks, the Country Communication Manager, Dr Charles Ebereonwu, who moderated the session, expressed optimism that the initiative would progress to a level where the country would achieve a critical mass of trained, professional drivers and quality trucks to eliminate road safety hazards associated with trucking petroleum products.  Also present were the GM, Operations TNPLC, Mr Rabiu Abdulmutalib and some other managers of the company.  Dangote Cement Plc has presented 82 brand new trucks to its distributors to assist them ease their product distribution logistics.   The move, the company said, was to help the distributors, responsible for the availability of the cement products nationwide, to service their customers efficiently and more profitably and in… August 3, 2020 In "Metro & Crime" Despite the fact that reconstruction of the Lagos-Ibadan  expressway  has reached 60 per cent completion, current  surge in tanker accidents resulting in damages  of  finished  sections of the road is generating  concerns among stakeholders. Dayo Ayeyemi reports   W hen the Federal Government, led by President Mohammadu Buhari, flagged off… June 30, 2020 In "Business" No fewer than two persons died in an early morning accident on Kara Bridge on Lagos-Ibadan Expressway. According to reports the accident occurred at about 1am on Saturday. The bridge has witnessed several accident in recent times. Sources said that a petrol-laden truck crashed at about 1am, with… November 7, 2020 In "Metro & Crime"