A coalition of 16 Civil Society Organisations yesterday blamed the insecurity, especially armed banditry and kidnapping in Zamfara, North-West part of the country, on corruption by previous administrations.  Addressing a press conference in Lagos, the coalition expressed dismay over the insecurity in the state, saying this posed a threat to the nation at large. Executive Director, Centre for Public Accountability, Comrade Olufemi Lawson, who addressed the briefing called on the new EFCC Chairman, Abdulrasheed Bawa, to beam searchlight on activities of past governments in Zamfara State.  He said: “As we gather here today, we are all are aware of the heightened threat of insecurity, occasioned by the activities of armed bandits particularly in the northwest of our country, the recent being Thursday’s abduction of about 317 schoolgirls in Zamfara.  “We are sad that the issue of insecurity in Nigeria is becoming a threat to everyone and we must not fold our arms while some elected public officials deprive us of the basic needs because of their irresponsibility.  “Our Coalition, a conglomerate of 16 frontline Civil Society organisations, is aghast by the monumental fraud allegedly perpetrated by the former governor of Zamfara State, Abdulaziz Yari, while in saddle as the Executive governor of Zamfara State, between 2011 and 2019  Nigerian farmers under the umbrella body of All Farmers Association of Nigeria (AFAN) called on the Federal Government to act swiftly to check insecurity in order to guarantee food security. The farmers said that banditry, kidnapping and general insecurity in the country, mostly in the North West region and other… October 2, 2020 In "Business" The Coalition for Nigeria Movement (CNM) has rubbished an article by former U.S. ambassador to Nigeria, John Campbell wherein he predicted no end in sight for the country's security challenges, particularly in the north.  Campbell, an envoy to Nigeria between 2003 and 2007 through a piece titled 'Darkness in Northern… December 25, 2020 In "News" Dakuku Peterside The recent abduction of 27 pupils and 15 workers of Government Science College, Kagara, Niger State by armed bandits is another demonstration of the dilapidated state of security in Nigeria and the Nigerian state's failure to secure the lives and ensure the safety of her citizens. According… February 22, 2021 In "Opinion"