As part of contribution to improve e-teaching and learning, Samsung organisation has donated 50 Computers, six split air conditioners, one educational board, one flip board, Access Control and CCTV to Yaba College of Technology (YABATECH).  According to the Managing Director of Samsung Nigeria, Mr. Dae H. Kim, the donation was part of Samsung’s contribution to develop an innovation campus of learning in order to improve modern teaching and learning in tertiary institutions.  The Head of Consumer Electronics Samsung, Mrs. Oluwaremilekun Ogunsan, however, hinted that the collaboration and cooperation between Samsung and YABATECH is primarily geared towards building a Samsung innovation hub as part of the electronics firm’s corporate social responsibility.  “The Samsung Educational Board is an interactive, touchscreen digital display that allows lecturers and students to hold and recap classes with incredible ease. It can also be used for conference meetings, online teaching, recording of lectures and ICT training for the community,” he said.  On the Samsung delegation during the handing over the items to the college include, the Head of Human Resources, Mr. Winston Nkanor. While taking the delivery of the equipment, the Rector of the college, Mr. Obafemi Omokungbe expressed gratitude to Samsung for the donation.  He, however, described Samsung as a global brand, saying that YABATECH was proud of the partnership with such a great organisation. Thus, the Rector promised that the college would not only put the world class equipment and facilities donated to the college into good use, but also ensure proper maintenance of the items.   Yaba College of Technology (Yabatech) has announced the death of the College's Director, Academic Planning Unit, Mr. M.A.O Omoighe, from COVID-19 complications. It also ordered all students to vacate the hotels latest Thursday, January 28, 2021. The medical centre was also shut for two weeks while those who may… January 27, 2021 In "Education" The management of the Yaba College of Technology (YABATECH) and Computer and Telecommunication Engineers Association of Nigeria (COMTEAN) are partnering on the development and training in computers.   The partnership followed a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) signed by the college and organisation to collaborate in the training of apprentices in… October 6, 2020 In "Education" In a move that clearly indicates it is set to lead the charge for 2021, Samsung has unveiled wave-making music act, JoeBoy as ambassador of the pace-setting Galaxy A series. The unveiling ceremony was held on Wednesday at Yudala Heights in Victoria Island, with the musician showing his excitement about… January 16, 2021 In "Arts & Entertainments"