Police have rescued the kidnapped traditional ruler of Ikuru in Andoni Local Government Area of Rivers State, His Royal Majesty King Aaron Miller, after five weeks in captivity.  The traditional ruler was abducted at his residence on the same day a lecturer at the University of Port Harcourt (UNIPORT) was kidnapped.  The state Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO), SP Nnamdi Omoni, said miller was released Saturday night at a forest at Abissa in Akuku Toru Local Government Area where he had been held by his abductors.  Omoni said the release of the “Okama of Ikuru Kingdom” was a result of a robust synergy between the police and the Navy.  He added: “The police, in the wake of the incident, deployed men strategically and mounted unassailable pressure on the kidnappers and it was reported that in one of such pressures, the king’s clothes and hat were recovered at a creek, while one Wariboko Basoene was arrested who in the course of investigation, made useful confessions to the police and finally led the operatives to a forest in Abissa, where the monarch was eventually rescued unhurt.”  Chairman of Okrika Local Government Area of Rivers State, Philemon Kingoli, was abducted by armed men on Peter Odili Road, Port Harcourt, on Wednesday. Kingoli was abducted in the early hours of Wednesday in circumstances yet to be ascertained. Sources said the abductors were yet to make any contact to… April 9, 2021 In "Metro & Crime" Gunmen have abducted the Chairman of Andoni Area Traditional Rulers Council, Rivers State, HRM Dr. Aaron Ikuru from his residence.   The monarch's abduction on Sunday night has thrown the area into panic. Gunmen also kidnapped some travellers, including a lecturer with the University of Port Harcourt (UNIPORT), Dr. Jones… February 23, 2021 In "Metro & Crime" The Police Command in Rivers said it has discovered the decomposing corpse of Mr Ereba Dinabari, 38, who was recently abducted from his residence in Woji area of Port Harcourt. The command’s spokesman, Nnamdi Omoni, confirmed the development to the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) in an interview on Thursday… July 24, 2020 In "News"