 President Muhammadu Buhari has ordered security agencies to identify sponsors and leaders of kidnappers and bandits especially in the north and take them out.
Buhari said his administration would not tolerate a situation where the criminal elements dictate the pace in the fight against insecurity and gave the marching orders to the security to bring such people and those backing them down.
The National Security Adviser (NSA), Major General Babagana Monguno (rtd) disclosed this while briefing State House correspondents at the end of the security meeting presided over by President Buhari at the Presidential Villa, Abuja.
The NSA also said President Buhari told the security heads that he would no longer tolerate a situation where the nation’s security is reactionary instead of being to be proactive.
The NSA added that President Buhari also insisted that all the decisions approved at the National Security Council meeting last month including a ban on mining activities in Zamfara as well as no fly zone remained enforced until further notice to curb the rising insecurity in the state.  …says performance on battlefield not good enough President Muhammadu Buhari has expressed dissatisfaction with the performances of the Service Chiefs in the counter-insurgency war and other security threats confronting Nigeria. The President, who gave the verdict yesterday at a meeting with the Service Chiefs, warned that he would no longer… June 19, 2020 In "News" President Muhammadu Buhari is currently holding a closed door meeting with the Chief of Army Staff, Tukur Buratai, at the Presidential Villa, Abuja. It was learned that the meeting might be related to the current security situation in the country. The security situation in the country is deteriorating. No fewer… July 20, 2020 In "Top Stories" L ast week, it was made known that President Muhammadu Buhari was no longer satisfied with the performance of his Service Chiefs, whom he appointed in 2015. The source of anger of the president is the persistent security challenges that have taken over the whole of the North-West,… June 23, 2020 In "Editorial"