Leicester City striker Kelechi Iheanacho has pledged to sustain his new-found form to help his club and national team, Super Eagles.  The striker scored twice and assisted the other as Leicester City ran out 3-1 winners over Manchester United in the FA Cup quarter final tie at the King Power Stadium on Sunday. Speaking to the club’s media team, Iheanacho said he was happy the team made history after the fantastic display.  The striker who has now scored seven goals in the last four matches for the club hinted he would translate his terrific club form when he files out for the Super Eagles.  “That’s history and we feel good about it. We are happy and so the fans too and hopefully we can do more in the next game to reach the final,” the striker said. “Hopefully, it’s coming now, but I just need to stay focused and continue working hard to do more for club and country . We prepared really well in training and planned to press them and attacked, that’s what  we did and worked really well for us.”
Super Eagles will face Benin Republic and Lesotho on Friday and next week’s Tuesday respectively in African Cup of Nations qualifiers.
He added: “The best is yet to come and I just have to keep working hard and hopefully the fans could get to see more of me.”
Meanwhile, Leicester City coach, Brendan Rodgers, has singled out Iheanacho for praise after the Super Eagles striker delivered a man-of-the-match performance to inspire them to a convincing 3-1 victory over the Red Devils.  A delighted Rodgers commended his side for matching the visitors with for wit and gut for gut while hailing Iheanacho’s new-found confidence that is fueling his excellent form.  The coach said: “I’m obviously delighted. It was a great team performance. Every aspect of the game was complete. We showed courage to play football against one of Europe’s greatest teams. I’m so happy for the players. I thought we thoroughly deserved it.  Super Eagles striker Kelechi Iheanacho is not ready to slow as he promised to work hard to sustain his newfound form. The forward scored a hat trick to help Leicester City demolish Sheffield United 5-0 on Sunday which took his tally to 10 goals across all competitions this season. However,… March 17, 2021 In "Sports" Leicester City striker, Kelechi Iheanacho, is hoping to get more playing minutes after his heroic display in his side’s 3-0 win over Zorya. Iheanacho marked his debut appearance in the Uefa Europa League with a goal and two assists on Thursday.   The Super Eagles forward assisted James Maddison to… October 24, 2020 In "Sports" Nigeria has a record of good players who were great ambassadors of Africa. Over time, many players have exhibited talents that the world appreciated but in the 90s, the country had a cream of such players. We recall that at the time, the Eagles of the 90s were tagged as… July 17, 2020 In "Editorial"