The Lagos State Government has donated a GAC (GS4) utility vehicle to the National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) Secretariat in Lagos to aid operations of the scheme.  The vehicle was presented to the Secretariat on the premises of the Ministry of Special Duties and Inter-Governmental Relations by the state Commissioner for Special Duties and Inter Governmental Relations,  Dr. Tayo Bamgbose. The Commissioner, however, reiterated Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu administration’s commitment to place the scheme in the state on an enviable pedestal and also the continued partnership with the NYSC to achieve a seamless workability of its projections.  While receiving the car keys, the Lagos State NYSC Coordinator, Mr. Eddy Megwa on behalf of the Director-General of NYSC, Brig. Gen. Shuaibu Ibrahim, management, saff and the entire corps members deployed to serve in Lagos State expressed gratitude to the Lagos State Government for its love for the scheme.  He thanked the governor for providing an enabling work environment for the operations of the scheme in Lagos State, even as Megwa promised that the vehicle would be put to immediate operational use and assured that the NYSC Scheme would continue to support all laudable activities of the state government with its  wealth of formidable manpower.  The Lagos State NYSC Coordination, it would be recalled, had made a passionate request for donation of an operational vehicle to Governor Sanwo-Olu, who promised to earnestly look into the request.  The presentation ceremony of the car was attended by top government functionaries, including Directors from the ministry and Assistant Directors from the NYSC State Secretariat.  Lagos State Governor, Babajide Sanwo-Olu has called on corps members deployed in the state for the 2020 Batch ‘B’ Stream 1A of the National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) Scheme to think about how they would add value to the society by developing innovative ideas that would help to improve the… November 17, 2020 In "News" The Lagos State Coordinator of the National Youth Service Corps (NYSC), Mr. Eddy Megwa, said that the essence of the scheme has not depleted, and neither has it lost its focus and essence.   This was as he noted that apart from fostering the unity among corps members, who are… July 21, 2020 In "Education" T he corps members deployed to Odi-Olowo Local Community Development Authority (LCDA), Lagos State for the one year mandatory National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) have donated relief packages to residents of the area, as part of moves to cushion the effects of the Corona Virus Disease (COVID-19) pandemic on the… June 30, 2020 In "Education"