…says Edo musicians should earn royalties from their creativity Oladipupo Awojobi New York-based entertainment consultant, Richard Iyasere, popularly known as “DaddyRich” has said that he is ready for quality music as he has returned to the entertainment industry.
The veteran promoter, who also made a case for Edo musicians to earn royalties for their creativity, lamented that the state has been suffering setbacks in terms of entertainment until recent times.
The businessman appeared in a magazine recently stating why he is returning into the entertainment world after quitting the show biz scene for a longtime.
“Edo Funk popular songs still suffer music royalties in this 21st century,” he said.
The veteran musician is one of the prominent Edo Funk music promoters, who recently brought Influence Akaba to America as well as CEO of DaddyRich productions, based in the United States of America.
He was among the promoters of Edo Funk, who popularized the music genre all over Europe and America.
“We strived hard to present Edo Funk music style to the world, I’m back to catapult Edo musicians to the next level,” he stated.
He lamented that Edo has never received royalties in terms of music due to the fact that, most musicians are not licensed and did not register their songs legally, adding that with the current situation, things were looking up.  If you have ever encountered Eno Louis Enobakhare, whose stage name is Eno Louis, you would be enamoured not just by his craftsmanship as a musician and entertainer or his high business acumen as he has successfully embraced the fine mix of showmanship and business. But also by his handsome… July 3, 2020 In "Arts & Entertainments" The Performing Musicians Employers Association of Nigeria (PMAN) and Musical Copyright Society Nigeria Ltd/ Gte (MCSN) have agreed to work together to enhance the living standards of Nigerian musicians and other creative people. To this end, the Society and the Musicians’ union have signed an agreement to ensure that they… March 19, 2021 In "Arts & Entertainments" The Nigerian entertainment space is about to receive a major boost as Evoke Musik, a new entertainment company based in the US with its subsidiary in Lagos Nigeria, signs on its flagship artiste, "Jethro Lion" (Jethro Chinweotito Abara) a Raggae/Dancehall act. Speaking during the unveiling of the artiste recently in… October 17, 2020 In "Arts & Entertainments"