… says military delaying supplementary budget for procurement of equipment The Minister of Finance, Budget and National Planning, Mrs. Zainab Ahmed, yesterday, said the Federal Government had budgeted N396 billion for the provision of COVID-19 vaccine in the 2022 Appro-priation. This came as she attributed the delay in the submission of the supplementary budget for the purchase of military hardwares to the National Assembly to the failure of the military to submit the aggregate amount needed for the procurement. Ahmed made these disclosures while fielding questions from State House Correspondents, at the end of the virtual Federal Executive Council (FEC), meeting presided over by Vice- President Yemi Osinbajo, at the Council Chamber, Presidential Villa, Abuja. While commenting on the supplementary budget for COVID-19 vaccine, Ahmed said: “Sometime in January, the President has, based on the request by the Ministry of Health, given in principle approval for the Ministry of Health to work with the Ministry of Finance, budget and National Planning to prepare and take to the National Assembly a supplementary budget for COVID-19 vaccination. “The submission that was made to Mr. President at that time was in the sum of N399 billion, but included in this N399 billion was a N103 billion for building of primary healthcare centres. “So, we have worked with that and met several times with the ministry, we have agreed to back out from this building of primary health care centres. That can wait till later. So, there is still a provision of 396 billion for COVID-19 vaccinations for 2021 and 2022. “There have been some delays because we expected the ministry to confirm the vaccines donation that Nigeria is expecting. We are expecting a total of not less than 43 million doses of vaccines. “So, they are supposed to find out when those ones will come. Because, if we are going to get back the donated vaccines, and at the speed of the current rollout, we have to slow down on what we are buying ourselves. “So, the ministry is working with partners that are donating these vaccines. We see the timelines of the donations and see the gap that the government needs to fill in 2021, but we have already provided to the ministry funds to enable them roll out the four million vaccines that have been brought already into the country, and the vaccination process is ongoing. “So far, it is still work in progress. We hope in the next couple of days, we will have clarity on the schedule of vaccines expected from donors, and then we will now be able to firm up what government has to provide for in 2021. And therefore the 2022 component we will provide it during the 2022 appropriations.” On the supplementary for the procurement of military hardware, she said “For the military hardware, we have met with the Service Chiefs and the Chief of Defence Staff. They are supposed to aggregate their request for review amongst themselves and then pass it to Mr. President, then it will be sent to us. So we are waiting for the information of the aggregate requirements.” Recall that President Muhammadu Buhari and the leadership of the National Assembly, led by the Senate President, Dr. Ahmad Lawan and the Speaker of the House of Representatives, Rt. Hon. Femi Gbajabiamila, met recently at the State House to agree on raising supplementary budget for the military to execute the fight against banditry and insurgency. Earlier, the Chairman of Nigeria Governors’ Forum (NGF) and Governor of Ekiti State, Dr. Kayode Fayemi, had equally met with the President on Monday, where he expressed the worry over the worsening security situation in the country.  ... says Military delaying supplementary budget for procurement of equipment The Minister of Finance, Budget and National Planning, Mrs. Zainab Ahmed, said that the Federal Government has budgeted N396 billion for the provision of COVID-19 vaccine in the 2022 Appropriation. This came as she attributed the delay in the submission… March 31, 2021 In "News" The Federal Government says it would present a supplementary budget to the national assembly in March for the acquisition of COVID-19 vaccines and vaccination of frontline workers. Minister of Finance, Budget and National Planning, Zainab Ahmed, said this on Thursday, at the maiden edition of State House briefing held… February 25, 2021 In "News" Abuja   The National Assembly has asked the Minister of Health, Dr. Osagie Ehanire, to appear before its joint committees on health and explain the whereabouts of N10 billion released for the local production of COVID- 19 vaccine.   The joint committees gave the order at a meeting with the… January 26, 2021 In "News"