…says alleged zoning mere speculation The All Progressives Congress (APC) Caretaker Extraordinary/ Convention Planning Committee has said that it cannot zone the party offices and positions in government without President Muhamadu Buhari’s presence. The party, which stated this yesterday in reaction to the zoning of party offices and government positions, distanced itself from alleged zoning seen in the social media. According to the Secretary of the Caretaker Committee, Senator John AkpanUdoedehe, who gave the reaction on behalf of the Committee, said the Committee had not considered the issue of zoning. AkpanUdoedehe said that the party was concerned on how to gather its data from the registration and revalidation exercise. Reacting to the alleged zoning, he said, “People who are interested in running for one office or the other can speculate. As far as I am concerned, the last Caretaker Committee meeting we had, we did not discuss that. That is not what we are concerned with now. What we are concerned with is data collection; how to collect data without making mistake. “We are not going to be pressurized by sentiment and do the wrong thing. “Let me say that zoning is not for the Caretaker Committee alone. It has to do with the President, it has to do with other major stakeholders, it has to do with a lot of people. “I want to mute the speculation. The list is not from us (Caretaker Committee). The President is not in town. There is no way such decision will be taken without consulting with the President, without consulting with the governors and other major stakeholders. People should disregard the list. We are focused on delivering our mandate and we are to do it rightly.” The zoning, as obtained from the social media, shows: President (South), Vice President (North), Senate President (South) Deputy Senate President (North), House of Reps Speaker (North), House of Reps Deputy Speaker (South). For the party offices, the alleged zoning states: National Chairman (North), National Secretary (South), National Treasurer (South), Financial Secretary (North), Legal Officer (North), Welfare Officer (South), Auditor (North), National Youth Leader (South) National Woman Leader (South) Publicity Secretary (South) and Persons With Disability PWD Leader (South).   The National Secretary of the All Progressives Congress (APC) Caretaker/Extraordinary Convention Planning Committee (CECPC), Sen. John James Akpanudoedehe, on Wednesday in Abuja, dismissed as fake, a list in circulation purporting to be the resolution of the party on the zoning arrangement ahead of the 2023 presidential election. Sen. John… April 14, 2021 In "Top Stories" Supremacy battle in Ebonyi PDP after Umahi’s exit   The Ebonyi State chapter of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has been enmeshed in supremacy battle after the recent defection of Governor Dave Umahi to the All Progressives Congress (APC), UCHENNA INYA reports   Until November 17, the Peoples Democratic Party… December 2, 2020 In "Politics" Less than two years before the 2023 general elections, the debate on who succeeds President Muhammadu Buhari and by extension, which geographical zone produces same is raging.   The opposition Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) stoked the current fire when a committee it set up in the aftermath of the 2019… March 28, 2021 In "News"