 Bruno Fernandes and Edinson Cavani both scored twice as Manchester United came from behind to take a major step towards sealing a place in next month’s Europa League final.
Fernandes gave United a perfect start in their semi-final with Italian side Roma when he swept home Cavani’s first-time lay-off, reports the BBC.
Paul Pogba’s handball allowed Lorenzo Pellegrini to equalise before the Roma skipper’s pass allowed former Manchester City striker Edin Dzeko to score his sixth goal in five Old Trafford appearances to turn the tie on its head by half-time.
But United rallied after the break. Cavani levelled with a superb first-time effort before tapping the hosts back in front when substitute keeper Antonio Mirante pushed Aaron Wan-Bissaka’s angled shot into his path.
Ole Gunnar Solskjaer’s men were in no mood to let their advantage slip a second time, although it took a fortunate penalty for what seemed to be an innocuous Chris Smalling tackle on Cavani to give Fernandes the chance add a fourth from the spot.
Pogba then powered home a precise header from Fernandes’ cross before Greenwood ran on to Cavani’s pass and drove home United’s sixth.
Dodgy defending
If there is one doubt over United’s ability to lift their first silverware under Solskjaer in Poland next month, it comes from the goals they conceded.
There has been a long-standing feeling that the bare statistics around United’s defence do not portray a true picture of their abilities.
They had conceded just one goal in six Europa League knockout ties prior to this evening – but it cannot be forgotten one of those that landed them in the competition in the first place was the ridiculous non-marking of Demba Ba during the shock Champions League defeat by Istanbul Basaksehir.
There was nothing on that scale – but in the modern era, Pogba was never going to get away with the ball hitting an outstretched, raised arm as he slid in to tackle Rick Karsdorp.
And the way Pellegrini was allowed so much space to drift into before supplying the low cross that invited Dzeko’s finish highlighted a total lack of awareness on Fred’s part.
And Nicolas Pepe’s second-half penalty gave Arsenal renewed hope of reaching the Europa League final despite a semi-final first-leg loss at Villarreal as both sides finished with 10 men.
With the Gunners trailing 2-0 and a man down following Dani Ceballos’ sending off, Pepe stepped up and fired home a precious away goal from the spot after Bukayo Saka had been tripped in the box.
It means Mikel Arteta’s side go into next Thursday’s second leg with genuine hope of reaching a second Europa League final in three seasons and with the potential of qualifying for next season’s Champions League.
They appeared to be sinking without trace when Manu Trigueros fired in an early low, angled drive for the home side before Raul Albiol slammed home at the back post following Gerard Moreno’s flick-on from a corner.
Ceballos’ red card with 30 minutes left, courtesy of a second booking for standing on the boot of Daniel Parejo, looked to have sealed their fate.
But Bernd Leno produced two good saves to keep the home side at bay before Pepe – playing as a false nine – had his say.
Villarreal may still have fancied their chances of scoring again, but this was hampered when they too were reduced to 10 men, as Etienne Capoue shown a second yellow for a late tackle on Saka.
RESULTS
Man Utd 6 – 2 Roma
Villarreal 2 – 1 Arsenal  Arsenal impressively swept aside Slavia Prague to reach the Europa League semi-finals with a fine away victory in the second leg. The night had potential to be a nervy affair with the tie evenly poised at 1-1, but the Gunners produced one of their best performances of the campaign… April 16, 2021 In "Sports" Arsenal impressively swept aside Slavia Prague to reach the Europa League semi-finals with a fine away victory in the second leg. The night had potential to be a nervy affair with the tie evenly poised at 1-1, but the Gunners produced one of their best performances of the campaign… April 15, 2021 In "Sports" *Wolves upstage nine-man Arsenal, Sheff Utd fight back to win Manchester United equalled the Premier League record by putting nine goals past nine-man Southampton - the second time Saints have lost 9-0 in as many seasons. A red card for Saints' Alexandre Jankewitz after only two minutes triggered a complete… February 3, 2021 In "Sports"