 Delectable Nollywood actress, Tayo Sobola better known as Sotayo Gaga is the new Sarauniya (Queen Mother) of Uke Kingdom, in Nasarawa State, a title bestowed on her by the Emir of Uke Kingdom, HRM Abdullah Hassan at an august gathering in the palace
The excited actress took to her Instagram page to reveal this.
In attendance was also Ambassador Sadiq Ibrahim who graced the occasion alongside a few other personalities
While sharing a video from the event, the actress wrote: “So today I officially become the Queen Mother of Uke Kingdom Nasarawa.”
Speaking on her role as the Queen Mother said some of her duties is to advocate and encourage girls child support and education, social particition in championing the aspirations of women dynamism and as well bring total social transformation to the kingdom especially at crucial time that there’s a lot of challenges in terms of women’s self empowerment
It is pertinent to note that the title conferment is the second in the history of the kingdom.
Explaining further, the Emir HRM Abdullah Hassan disclosed that his father’s twin sister was the first Queen Mother as far back as 1970  and ever since no individual had emerged one until “today’s conferment of the title on you”.
In his congratulatory message to the actress, the Emir said: “Once again congratulations as  the most youngest among the saraunias in the northern Emirates.”
Industry colleagues have also taken to social media to congratulate the actress and CEO of Cleanstitches & Sotee Entertainment on the new title.  Former Miss Earth Nigeria beauty Queen, Modupe Susan Garland has said ‘yes’ to marrying her long time sweetheart, Obie Okoye.   The model, who became famous after winning the Miss Earth Nigeria in 2019 contest organised by popular actress Ibinabo Fiberesima, wrote on her social media handle that this was… November 22, 2020 In "Body & Soul" Top Nollywood celebrity, Tayo Sobola unveiled the biggest e-commerce platform in the country, Hicolumn, with matchless qualities that connects consumers to choice stores, anytime, anywhere, thus bringing their usual places of shopping close to their neighbourhood.   The unveiling of the groundbreaking ecommerce platform took place at the Radisson Blu… December 13, 2020 In "Body & Soul" Ghanaian actress, entrepreneur, and philanthropist, Yvonne Okoro, turned 36 on November 25, 2020, and she took to social media to announce and celebrate. In the post which she shared on her official Instagram page, the actress donned a well-fitting sky blue two-piece and rocked an elegant hair to match. Christmas… November 27, 2020 In "Arts & Entertainments"