The Nigeria Olympic Committee (NOC) in partnership with the International Olympic Committee (IOC) has concluded plans to hold a 2-day training for sports journalists across the country.  The training will hold between April 27 and 28, 2021 and will cover courses on print, radio and TV, production and multimedia. Speaking ahead of the training President of the NOC, Engineer Habu Ahmed Gumel, described the training as timely, noting that it is needed ahead of the Olympics, later in the year.   “With few months to the 2020 Olympics in Tokyo, it is imperative to train the local media in the latest strategies in reporting a multi-sports event like the Olympics,” he said. “Covid-19 has changed how sports will be organised and reported for both athletes and the media. The training will provide insight into how sports journalists can navigate the restrictions to keep the excitement on the sport while providing solutions.”  Three experienced media practitioners have been selected to take the participants through the latest trends in the industry. Veteran sports broadcaster and author Deji Omotoyinbo will lead that cast that includes experienced producer, Tola Badekale and multimedia journalist, Enitan Obadina  The Nigeria Olympic Committee joined other National Olympic Committees across the globe to take part in the 2020 Olympic Day celebration. The first Olympic Day was celebrated on 23rd June, 1948 with the aim of promoting the Olympic Movement and it has become a yearly event ever since. All NOCs… June 24, 2020 In "Sports" The President of the Nigeria Olympic Committee, Engineer Habu Gumel Ahmed, wishes all stakeholders and the corporate world a resounding happy New year. Gumel in his New Year message to his immediate constituency and the corporate world, thanked all and sundry for their support for the success recorded so far… January 4, 2021 In "Sports" The Secretary General of the Nigeria Olympic Committee (NOC) Olabanji Oladapo could not hide his excitement after watching Aruna Quadri becoming the first African to qualify for the quarterfinal of the World Table Tennis (WTT) Contender Series taking place in Doha, Qatar. On Wednesday, Quadri beat Indian national champion Sathiyan… March 5, 2021 In "Sports"