The Nigerian Bar Association (NBA), Anambra branch, says the prolonged nationwide strike by the Judiciary Staff Union of Nigeria (JUSUN) is affecting the justice system. Mr. Kingsley Awuka, Chairman of the Committee of Chairmen of the eight branches of NBA in Anambra, made the assertion in a statement in Awka yesterday. The statement said that the decision of the Governors’ Forum to suspend discussion and engagement of JUSUN was uncharitable, unpatriotic and totally unacceptable.  The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that JUSUN began a nationwide indefinite strike on Monday, April 6, 2021 over the nonimplementation of judicial financial autonomy as enshrined in the Constitution. President Muhammadu Buhari had signed an Executive Order granting financial autonomy to the judiciary and State House of Assembly in May 2020, after several agitations.  However, the gazetting of the order was suspended after Buhari met with governors, who later expressed concern over its constitutionality. It said: “The justice sector of our country is progressively sliding into the destructive dungeon with no hope in sight of its recovery.  The Judiciary Staff Union of Nigeria (JUSUN) Tuesday commenced a nationwide indefinite strike action to press home its demand for full fiscal autonomy for the judiciary. The strike began amidst call by the Nigerian Bar Association (NBA) on the leadership of JUSUN to shelve the action.   The NBA had… April 6, 2021 In "News" …as CJN seeks strike's suspension   The Judiciary Staff Union of Nigeria (JUSUN) yesterday commenced a nationwide indefinite strike action to press home its demand for full fiscal autonomy for the judiciary.   The strike began amidst call by the Nigerian Bar Association (NBA) on the leadership of JUSUN to… April 7, 2021 In "News" State governors have said the Federal Government cannot dictate to them the implementation of the financial autonomy for the state legislature and the judiciary. President Muhammadu Buhari had in June last year, signed Executive Order 10, 2020 into law, which granted financial autonomy to state legislatures and the judiciary. Last… April 13, 2021 In "News"