 Babatope Okeowo, Akure Palpable tension has gripped the residents of Okitipupa in Okitipupa Local Government Area of Ondo State following the invasion of suspected Fulani herdsmen in the community.
The herders, in their hundreds, were said to have been intercepted around 9 pm on Thursday by the military personnel on security duty in the Ondo South senatorial district.
The  reason for the sudden arrival in the night of the people of the Northern origin has not been ascertained by many residents who were apprehensive of possible attack.
The suspected herders, it was learnt were dumped around the army barracks in Okitipupa but were not allowed in by the army authority’s. This forced  many residents to hurriedly close their businesses out of fear.
The local government Chairman, Mr Igbekele Akinrinwa, who confirmed the arrival of these herders in the night, alleged that it was a native of the town that facilitated the travellers’ trip.
Akinrinwa said the man had been apprehended by the state’s security corps, Amotekun.  *As army kills two herdsmen, recover assorted weapons, ammunition   Cephas Iorhemen, Makurdi   Benue State Governor Samuel Ortom Saturday called on President Muhammadu Buhari to declare armed Fulani herdsmen killing innocent people in communities of the state as terrorists, even as the Nigerian Army neutralised two suspected herdsmen who… July 11, 2020 In "Metro & Crime" The on-going attacks on farmers by suspected Fulani herders and their allies, mostly in South-West and some other parts of the country threatening Nigeria’s target of self-sufficiency in food production and safety in agriculture. TAIWO HASSAN examines the situation For some time now, the crisis between farmers and Fulani herdsmen… February 12, 2021 In "Business" Akeredolu, herders bicker over Forest reserves Many residents of Ondo State have been living in fear as a result of the activities of bandits masquerading as Fulani herdsmen who have killed and kidnapped for travelers for ransom.   Babatope Okeowo reports that the seven days ultimatum given by Governor Oluwarotimi… January 27, 2021 In "Mega City"