…okays bill for establishment of anti-graft agency in Lagos He n c e f o r t h , trouble awaits corrupt civil servants, contractors and anyone in Lagos who engages in financial misappropriation as the state Governor, Mr. Babajide Sanwo-Olu has signed a bill establishing an anticorruption commission into law.  With the legislation coming into force, the Anti- Corruption Commission, which is expected to be established soon by the governor, is backed by the instrument of law to investigate and prosecute officials of the state government and registered contractors indicted for economic crimes and financial misappropriation.  New Telegraph authoritatively gathered that there have been reported cases of cesspool of corruption involving some contractors and government officials within the current and the previous administrations.  But to stem the tide of the cases through the instrument of the law, the legislation was sponsored by the executive arm of the government and was signed into law days after it was passed by the House of Assembly.  Governor Sanwo-Olu also assented to the Public Complaints and Anti-Corruption Commission Bill of 2021 at a brief ceremony held in Alausa, Ikeja, saying that the state, under his administration, has taken a step further to deepen the culture of accountability and transparency in the expenditure of appropriated public funds.  Other bills assented to by Governor Sanwo-Olu were: the Lagos State Lotteries and Gaming Authority Bill of 2021, initiated by the executive arm to coordinate activities of lotteries agencies operating within the state.  Speaking after the signing bills into law, Sanwo- Olu said the action was a testimony to the state government’s effort towards entrenching accountability in governance and checking malfeasance among officers entrusted with public resources.  He said: “The bill establishing Public Complaints and Anti-Corruption Commission is an important legislation critical to the delivery of quality services to the citizens. When we came in, we had said we would be accountable and responsible in the appropriation of the state’s resources. We want to stand in front of the citizens to give account on how public funds are being spent.  “To give credence to this promise, the executive arm initiated the bill and sent it to the Assembly for approval. We believe that this law would not only ensure accountability of public funds, responsibility of public office, but also promote dialogue among public officers to keep the trust of the people in the discharge of their duties in line with transparency.  The anti-corruption commission will ensure that all approved activities are implemented in accordance with budgetary allocation.”  Sanwo-Olu said the Anti Corruption Commission, when established, would be independent in its operations and functions, pointing out that the agency would complement efforts of similar agencies in the police and federal establishment. The Lotteries and Gaming Authority Bill of 2021, the governor disclosed, is to simplify and incorporate technological innovations in the gaming sector.  The law sought to harmonise five gaming and lottery formats, such as casino, jackpot, pool, lotto and sports betting, thereby regulating the sector and checking fraudulent activities of unregistered game centres within the state.  Sanwo-Olu said the former lottery law of the state did not meet the contemporary needs in the industry, which was why the executive initiated the bill to accommodate technology in regulating the business.  The governor said: “As a forward-looking government, we are doing the needful to ensure fairplay, regulation and monitoring is brought back into the gaming industry.  The law is not in any form to stifle investment, but to offer better platform for lottery companies to enhance equity, transparency and make their investment more rewarding.”  Sanwo-Olu reiterated that his government’s actions would continue to be taken in a way that would boost confidence of the public and promote accountability in governance.   He thanked the Speaker and members of the Assembly for cooperating with the executive arm and consistently prioritising executive bills aimed at delivering good governance.  Attorney General and Commissioner for Justice, Mr. Moyosore Onigbanjo (SAN), said the two bills signed by the governor made it 10th legislation sponsored by the executive and passed by the House of Assembly to strengthen good governance. 26 executive bills, he said, have been initiated since inception of the current administration.  He said: “The Anti- Corruption Commission agency to be established is akin to the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) to prosecute misappropriation of public funds in the state.  The chairman of the agency will be appointed by Mr. Governor, subject to the ratification of the House of Assembly. If the investigation leads to prima facie case, the offender will be prosecuted in the court.”  Chairman of the House Committee on Finance, Hon. Rotimi Olowo and his counterpart in Public Complaints and Judiciary, Hon. Victor Akande, attended the event.   ...Okays bill establishing anti-graft agency in Lagos Henceforth, trouble awaits corrupt civil servants, contractors and anyone in Lagos who engages in financial misappropriation as the state's Governor, Mr  Babajide Sanwo-Olu signed  a bill establishing an anti-corruption commission in the state into law. With the legislation coming into force, the anti-corruption… April 19, 2021 In "Metro & Crime" Lawrence Olaoye   Oyo State Governor, Seyi Makinde, unarguably had been made before becoming the governor of the Pacesetter State in 2019. An individual who officially declared N48 billion assets cannot be described as a financial dwarf by global standards.   At every given forum, he has consistently maintained that… January 24, 2021 In "Politics" …appoints 2 Permanent Secretaries, Members of Procurement Agency Governing Board   Henceforth, hard times await cultists as Lagos State Governor, Mr. Babajide Sanwo-Olu, finally okayed 21-year jail term for any convicted cultist with the signing of the bill for the Prohibition of Unlawful Societies and Cultism of 2021 into law.… March 16, 2021 In "News"