 THE Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), Sunday morning declared the candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party’s (PDP), Mr Jude Ogbimi winner of Saturday’s Isoko North Constituency by-election.
The Returning Officer for the by-election, Professor Christopher Onosemuode of the Federal University of Petroleum Resources Effurun (FUPRE), who announced the result, said 11 political parties contested in the Delta State House of Assembly by-election.
Saying Jude Ogbimi scored 29,421 votes to defeat eight other candidates, Onosemuode who is the Dean of Postgraduate School, FUPRE, said the candidate of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Mr Emmanuel Tabuko, came distant second with 2,543 votes while the candidate of the ADP, Mr Agose Ogagaoghene, came third with 66 votes.
He said: “I, Prof Christopher Onosemuode of the Federal University of Petroleum Resources, (FUPRE), Effurun, Delta State, hereby declare that Mr Jude Ogbimi of the PDP having scored the highest number of valid votes is hereby declared winner of the Isoko North Constituency by-election and returned elected. The PDP candidate is hereby declared winner in line with electoral guidelines.”
The House of Assembly by-election followed the death of former Majority Leader of the House, Mr Tim Kome Owhefere.  Candidates of the ruling Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in last Saturday’s local government elections in Delta State have emerged overall winners in the 25 council areas of the state. This came as the All Progressives Congress (APC) in the state described the exercise as a charade and wilful wastage of… March 9, 2021 In "News" Nigeria’s ruling party, the All Progressives Congress (APC), and opposition Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) have maintained grip on their strongholds in the Saturday’s by-elections across 11 states. In the five states – Lagos, Plateau, Imo, Bayelsa and Cross River – the respective ruling party won the six senatorial seats. While… December 7, 2020 In "News" The Federal University of Petroleum Resources, Effurun (FUPRE) in Uvwie Local Government Area of Delta State, yesterday rewarded a committed and dedicated senior staff of the institution, Mr. Lawrence Oladiti with award of excellence. This was as the Vice- Chancellor, Prof. Akpofure Rim-Rukeh, said his administration would continue to reward… September 17, 2020 In "News"