…a rare stock who spoke truth to power—Ohanaeze Youth Council  As tribute continue to pour in yesterday on the death of Mr. Yinka Odumakin, spokesperson of the Pan Yoruba Socio-cultural Organisation, Afenifere, Governor Oluwarotimi Akeredolu of Ondo State has described him as a true nationalist who placed the Yoruba race on a pedestal of honour and high regards.  This came as the National President of Ohanaeze Youth Council; Comrade Igboayaka O Igboayaka described late Odumakin as one of the few remaining social crusaders who are not afraid to speak truth to power.  He said that death was a national tragedy but added that the late Afenifere spokesman would be remembered for all the lofty ideals he held dear and lived by.  Also speaking, the Secretary General of Afenifere, Basorun Sehinde Arogbofa described the death as a terrible blow to the country and Afenifere; Odumakin was reported to have died in a Lagos hospital on Saturday morning.  According to Akeredolu who lamented that Odumakin’s death is one death too many within the south west region.  In a statement signed by the Commissioner for Information and Orientation in the state, Donald Ojogo, the late spokesperson of Afenifere gave all in his passion-filled struggle for a virile and peaceful Nigeria with fairness, justice, equity and freedom as his beacons.  •MPF, Arewa youths, Afenifere insist Nigeria not safer An elder statesman, Chief Ayo Adebanjo, has said that he didn't believe in the style and policies of the current Federal Government. Adebanjo, who spoke with Saturday Telegraph, in a telephone interview, stressed that President Muhammadu Buhari's government does not appreciate people… January 16, 2021 In "News" Johnson Ayantunji   Yoruba socio-political organisation, Afenifere Renewal Group (ARG), through its National Publicity Secretary, Yinka Odumakin, has said that the Yoruba nation can survive on its own should Nigeria break up or be restructured.   Odumakin who said this in a reaction to the statement credited to former interim… October 4, 2020 In "News" NEF to Akerodolu: Your order provocative, unhelpful Afenifere: Buhari’s govt represents only Fulani interest The seven-day quit notice handed to herdsmen to leave forest reserves in Ondo State has stirred up controversies in the polity and has polarised northern and southern leaders. While the Yoruba sociopolitical organisation, Afenifere, has thrown… January 21, 2021 In "News"