 The Ogun State Police Command has arrested a 49-year-old man, Ubong Williams Akpan, in the Itele, Ota area of the state for having unlawful carnal knowledge of his 12-year-old daughter for more than five years.
According to the police, Akpan was arrested for the act which he allegedly began since his daughter was seven.
The police said in a statement that the suspect was arrested following a report lodged at Itele Ota Divisional Headquarters by the victim, who reported that her father had been abusing her sexually since when she was seven years old.
She stated further that it was when she could no longer bear it, she decided to complain to the police.
Upon the report, the Divisional Police Officer of the Itele Ota division detailed his detectives to the scene where the suspect was promptly arrested.
“On interrogation, he confessed to the commission of the crime, claiming that his wife is appearing too old, and she is no longer looking attractive to him.
“Meanwhile, the Commissioner of Police, CP Edward Awolowo Ajogun, has ordered the immediate transfer of the case to the family support unit of Ota area command for further investigation and prosecution.
“He also directed that the victim be taken to the general hospital for proper medical treatment,” the Police Public Relations Officer, DSP Abimbola Oyeyemi, stated in a release.  Police in Ogun State have arrested 54-year-old Niyi Omowodun for allegedly defiling a 12-year-old girl (name withheld). The incident was said to have happened at Itele Ota in Ado-Odo/Ota Local Government Area of the state. The suspect, who claimed to be a pastor, allegedly lured the teenager into an uncompleted… July 1, 2020 In "Metro & Crime" Police have arrested a 25-year-old man, Elisha James, for allegedly defiling a four-year-old daughter of his co-tenant at Warewa community in Ogun State. The state Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO), DSP Abimbola Oyeyemi, who disclosed this to journalists in Abeokuta yesterday, said the suspect was allegedly caught by the victim’s… March 31, 2021 In "Metro & Crime" The police in Ogun State have arrested a 72-yearold man, Ishola Tijani for allegedly defiling a sevenyear- old girl (name withheld).   The Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO), DSP Abimbola Oyeyemi in a statement in Abeokuta yesterday disclosed that the suspect was arrested on Tuesday, September 22 in Iperu, Ikenne… September 27, 2020 In "News"