Boko Haram has killed seven people and displaced about 5,000 people during an attack on a community in Hong Local Government Area of Adamawa State.  The Executive Secretary, Adamawa State Emergency Agency, Dr. Mohammed Sulaiman, said yesterday that the displacement affected other neighbouring communities.  Sulaiman explained that the insurgents came in nine vehicles on Friday night and freely interacted with the innocent indigenes of Kwapre village in Dugwaba District of Hong Local Government  Area before commencing their attacks.  He said: “After successfully surrounded the village, the insurgents started attacking. They killed over seven people, including three children, burnt 50 houses, worship centres, markets and schools.”  According to him, the group also kidnapped men, women and girls. Sulaiman, however, said the report available to the agency indicated that about eight people among the kidnapped victims had escaped through the bush.  Meanwhile, those displaced during the attack are still taking refuge in nearby villages, to avoid further attacks by the insurgents. The District Head of  Dugwaba, Mr. Simon Dugwaba, in a telephone interview yesterday afternoon, said the attackers overran the village in the night when the villagers  were asleep, making it impossible for any resistance.  Dugwaba said more than 20 people were injured while more than 20  others were kidnapped in the attacks which lasted for over three hours.  He said those injured were receiving treatment at Hong General Hospital, while two people who were critically injured by gunshot had been referred to the Federal Medical Centre (FMC), Yola.  The village head disclosed that in 2014, Kwapre village was attacked and destroyed by Boko Haram.  The Chairman, Hong Local Government Area, Mr. James Pukuma, said normalcy had returned to  the area as security and local security groups had been deployed to protect lives and property. Pukuma called on the people to be vigilant and report any suspicious move to the nearest security agency for quick response.  The state Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO), DSP Suleiman Nguroje, said security personnel had been deployed in the area. Dugwaba district and Kwapre village are close to the dreaded Sambisa Forest, housing Boko Haram members.  Suspected Boko Haram insurgents have attacked Kwapre, a village in Hong local government area of Adamawa and killed five persons. They also abducted women said to be no fewer than 30 during the attack on Friday evening. Sources added the insurgents shot rapidly, scaring residents into surrounding bushes and… April 10, 2021 In "Metro & Crime" Pandemonium as diesel tanker explodes on Otedola Bridge   Bloodletting across the country has continued with 11 people killed and 35 commuters kidnapped in different attacks in Kaduna and Borno states over the last 24 hours.   Before the latest murders, on Thursday, seven persons were killed and a number… December 20, 2020 In "News" Kwapre community in Hong Local Government Area, of Adamawa State, affected by the recent attacks by Boko Haram insurgents, have said they lost over 8,500 bags of grains to the fundamentalists.   The residents of the community narrated their harrowing experience in the hands of the insurgents while speaking to… April 25, 2021 In "Metro & Crime"