President Muhammadu Buhari, yesterday, said his government would ensure that the weak, the poor and underprivileged in the society are not abandoned. The President gave this pledge in his Easter message to Christians in a statement made available to newsmen by his spokesman, Femi Adesina. He said: “As a government, we will continue to ensure that the weak, the poor and the underprivileged in our midst are not abandoned. “We have reached out with palliative care even in the midst of dwindling resources; we have tried our best to provide support to families and businesses affected at this time. That is the spirit of Easter. The spirit of Faith. The spirit of Belief. The spirit of Hope.” The President recalled that a year ago, in most of the nation’s major cities, celebrations were somewhat subdued, as the people battled the effect of the deadly Coronavirus pandemic. He added: “The restrictions meant that our brethren could not attend traditional church services as they would have wished. I salute their resilience and understanding. Today, we are able to congregate and worship together, cautiously.” The President also acknowledged and appreciated the sacrifices of the frontline health workers who have made the difference in saving lives and ensuring the reduction of the spread of the virus. “I thank Nigerians who have religiously adhered to various interventions to curb the spread of COVID-19, including regular hand washing; safe distancing, wearing of face masks and embrace of vaccination.   President Muhammadu Buhari has said that his government will ensure that the weak, the poor and underprivileged in the society are not abandoned. The President gave this pledge Thursday in his Easter message to Christians in a statement made available to newsmen by his spokesman, Femi Adesina. He said: “As… April 1, 2021 In "News" ...insists decision in Nigeria's best interest President Muhammadu Buhari has explained the reasons for the recent increase in the price pump price of petrol, also known as premium motor spirit (PMS), saying that the COVID-19 pandemic has led to a severe downturn and impacted negatively on the country’s finances.  … September 7, 2020 In "News" Some military officers in Ekiti State, who retired voluntarily after the civil war of between 1967 and 1970, have appealed to President Muhammadu Buhari to initiate a process that would clear years of unpaid pension to them with a view to rescuing them from poverty and untimely death. They, however,… November 13, 2020 In "News"