 Libya’s Ahly Benghazi guaranteed Group A of CAF Confederation Cup will go to the wire at the final match day, defeating Nigeria’s Enyimba 1-0 on Thursday night.
A win for visitors Enyimba could have settled the group, just like the case in all three other groups. But Ahly’s win meant action will continue in the final matchday next Wednesday.
At Benina Martyrs stadium in Benghazi, Ahly pushed from the first minute, aiming for maximum points that would give them hope of reaching the quarterfinals.
But they had to wait till the 40th minute to take the lead through Mutassim El Taib.
The Libyan right winger received Aboubakr Meeld pass and sent a powerful shot past Enyimba goalkeeper John Noble to give his side a deserved lead.
After the break, Enyimba threw everything in attack looking for the equalizer, but Benghazi’s goalkeeper Murad Alweehi came to his side’s rescue in several occasions.
Enyimba finished the game with 10 men, with Timothy Danladi received his marching orders after 75 minutes.
Thanks to this victory, Ahly Benghazi rose to Group A second place on 7 points, two less than group leaders Orlando Pirates. Enyimba follows with six points while Algeria’s ES Setif trails the group with five.
With all four sides still hopeful of a place in the quarterfinals draw set for Friday 30 April, the final matchday next Wednesday sees Enyimba taking on Orlando Pirates in Aba, while ES Setif welcomes Ahli Benghazi in Setif.  After a huge moment of uncertainties, Enyimba FC of Aba will now honour their CAF Confederations Cup match with Al Ahly Benghazi as the team flew to Libya on a chattered flight following the intervention of the governor of Abia State, Dr. Okezie Ikpeazu. The People's Elephant were at risk… April 21, 2021 In "Sports" Enyimba international FC of Aba shot back to the top of Group A of the CAF Confederation Cup with a 2-1 victory against Algerian side ES Setif in Aba. Enyimba with six points in the group will remain at the summit should Orlando Pirates fail to pick maximum points in… April 5, 2021 In "Sports" Enyimba International Football Captain, Austin Oladapo, has disclosed that the team is in South Africa to win against their host, Orlando Pirates, as both teams clash in CAF Confederation Cup today in the Rainbow country. The two-time CAF Champions League winners are playing their second match of the group stage… March 17, 2021 In "Sports"