Former Governor of Abia State and Chief Whip of the Senate, Dr. Orji Kalu has commiserated with the government and people of Delta State over the passing of the 20th Olu of Warri, His Royal Majesty, Ogiame Ikenwoli Emiko, whose demise has been officially announced. Kalu also congratulated His Royal Majesty Prince Utieyinoritsetsola Emiko on his selection as Oludesignate.  While conveying his warm greetings to the Itsekiri nation, the former governor urged the Oludesignate to uphold the remarkable legacies of his predecessors, which was anchored on selflessness, patriotism and inclusive leadership.  In a goodwill message, the Senate Chief Whip called on Itsekiri sons and daughters across the globe to rally support for the Olu-designate, adding that the Itsekiri have, over the years, sustained their culture and tradition, of which the revered position of Olu of Warri remains the rallying point.  He said, “I condole with the Itsekiri nation over the demise of His Royal Majesty, Ogiame Ikenwoli Emiko, the 20th Olu of Warri.  “The late Olu Ikenwoli was a strong advocate of peace and, as such, he contributed to nation building through various platforms. “He lived a remarkable life dedicated to the service of humanity’.  “I equally congratulate His Royal Majesty, Prince Utieyinoritsetsola Emiko on his emergence as Oludesignate. “Having sustained his late father’s pedigree, the 19th Olu of Warri, the Oludesignate has the capacity to steer the affairs of the Itsekiri nation. “I wish the Olu-designate a peaceful reign and continued success in all his endeavours.”  Kalu prayed for long life and prosperity for the Oludesignate as he ascends the throne of his forefathers.  ...declare three-month mourning period for late monarch   Itsekiri across the country were yesterday thrown into mourning as the demise of His Majesty, Ogiame Ikenwoli, the Olu of Warri, was announced by the Iyatsere of Warri Kingdom, Chief Johnson Atseruleghe.   The event, which was held at Ode-Itsekiri (Big Warri),… April 6, 2021 In "Metro & Crime" Unhealthy rivalry has started to trail the choice of the successor to the throne of the the Olu of Warri in Delta State, following the officially unannounced of demise of HRM, Ogiame Ikenwoli, Atuwatse ll, the king of Itsekiri ethnic nationality.   The Olu was said to be indisposed since… April 5, 2021 In "News" The Iyatsere of Warri Kingdom, Chief Johnson Atserunleghe, has announced the death of the 20th Olu of Warri, Ogiame Ikenwoli. The announcement was followed by 20 cannon shots signifying that 20 Olus had reigned so far. Thereafter, the Iyatsere pronounced a mourning period of three lunar months throughout the… April 5, 2021 In "Metro & Crime"