The Presidency has assured that the President Muhammmadu Buhari’s administration is not giving up yet on the recovery of the remaining schoolgirls kidnapped by the Boko Haram insurgents in Chibok, Borno State. About 100 of the 276 students of the Government Girls Secondary School, Chibok, Borno state (otherwise known as the Chibok girls) are yet to be rescued from the insurgents which abducted them about seven years ago (April, 2014). In a release by the Senior Special Assistant to the President on media and publicity, Malam Garba Shehu, the Presidency said, “the missing students of Government Girls Secondary School, Chibok, Borno State, remain constantly on the mind of government as they are always on the minds of their parents.” According to him, the release of the remaining Chibok girls is still work in progress. He wrote: “No one is giving up hope here. Efforts to secure their release through various channels and activities of the security and intelligence agencies remain on course. The recent decisive push by the military against the terrorists gives hope that a breakthrough is possible and could happen anytime soon. The Presidency asks for support, understanding and prayers for the military as they discharge their historic mandate to quickly finish off the insurgency war and free all citizens held hostage.”  Lawrence Olaoye, Abuja The Presidency has assured that President Muhammmadu Buhari's administration is not giving up yet on the recovery of the remaining schoolgirls kidnapped by the Boko Haram insurgents in Chibok, Borno State years ago. About 100 of the 276 students of the Government Girls Secondary School, Chibok,… April 14, 2021 In "Top Stories" …as gov shares N11m to 83 families affected by insurgency   Borno State Governor, Prof. Babagana Zulum, was in Chibok on Monday, during which he assessed and ordered the immediate rehabilitation of Government Secondary School, Chibok, where more than 200 schoolgirls were abducted by Boko Haram on April 14, 2014.… November 18, 2020 In "News" ...says government learnt nothing from previous kidnappings ...signifies security architecture compromised under Buhari   Regina Otokpa, Abuja   The leadership of the Christian Association of Nigeria (CAN) has called on the Federal Government to without delay; suspend all boarding facilities in both public and private schools in the North. Condemning… December 16, 2020 In "News"