 The US, South Africa and European Union will temporarily stop the rollout of the Johnson & Johnson (J&J) Covid jab, after reports of rare blood clotting.
Six cases were detected in more than 6.8 million doses of the vaccine, the US Food and Drug Administration (FDA) said.
Johnson & Johnson has paused its EU rollout, which started this week, reports the BBC.
It follows similar cases after doses of the AstraZeneca vaccine, which prompted curbs to its use.
The FDA said it was recommending the temporary pause “out of an abundance of caution”. It confirmed that one patient died from blood clotting complications, and another is in a critical condition.
All six cases were in women aged between 18 and 48, with symptoms appearing six to 13 days after vaccination.
Following the advice, all federal sites in the US have stopped using the vaccine until further investigations into its safety are completed. State and private contractors are expected to follow suit.
The US has by far the most confirmed cases of Covid-19 – more than 31 million – with more than 562,000 deaths, another world high.
Johnson & Johnson is a US health care company, but the vaccine was developed mainly by its pharmaceutical branch in Belgium, and is also known as Janssen. Unlike some of the other jabs, it is given as a single shot and can be stored at normal refrigerator temperatures, making it easier to distribute in hotter climates or more remote areas.
While many countries have pre-ordered millions of doses, it has only been approved in a few nations.
It was cleared for use in the US on February 27, but the Pfizer-BioNTech and Moderna vaccines have been used more widely. The J&J vaccine has been administered to nearly seven million people in the US, which is around 3% of the total immunisations given so far.
Dr Anthony Fauci, the country’s top Covid adviser, said it was too early to comment on whether it could have its authorisation revoked.
South Africa, which was the first country to administer the vaccine, has also paused its use, although no cases of blood clots have been reported in the country.
The jab became the preferred vaccine there after studies showed it had a higher protection rate against the South African variant than other jabs. Since mid-February, nearly 300,000 healthcare workers have received it.
The World Health Organisation told Reuters it was monitoring the situation and waiting for reports from the US and European regulators.
However deliveries of the vaccine to EU countries started just 24 hours before J&J said it would pause the European rollout. As it has not been administered in the EU yet, experts there will be looking to the United States to see what their next move is.
The EU’s vaccine roll-out has been criticised by the WHO for being too slow, and and there are concerns this latest delay could throw it into further turmoil.  Results from the long-awaited US trial of the Oxford-AstraZeneca Covid vaccine are out and confirm that the shot is both safe and highly effective. More than 32,000 volunteers took part, mostly in America, but also in Chile and Peru, reports the BBC. The vaccine was 79% effective against stopping… March 22, 2021 In "Health" Ireland has temporarily halted its use of the Oxford/AstraZeneca jab after some reports of blood clots in vaccinated people. The move came after a review from the Norwegian Medicines Agency showed four new cases of "serious blood clotting in adults" had occurred after the jab, reports Sky News. Ireland's… March 14, 2021 In "News" Canadian health officials said on Monday they would stop offering AstraZeneca's COVID-19 vaccine to people under age 55 and require a new analysis of the shot's benefits and risks based on age and gender. The moves follow reports from Europe of rare but serious blood clots, bleeding and in… March 30, 2021 In "Health"