 A Lagos-based pastor, Frederick Aramuwa, who was kidnapped while travelling along the Ipele/Idoani Road in Ondo State, has been found dead.
Aramuwa was said to be travelling from Lagos to his hometown, Ifira-Akoko in Ondo State and was discovered to be missing since March 31.
Subsequently, his kinsmen embarked on a rigorous search for him and equally reported the case to the police.
However, it was discovered that the deceased was kidnapped and his captors demanded ₦10 million ransom, which was reduced to ₦2 million after negotiations.
Channels Television reports that after the ₦2 million ransom was paid, it was the lifeless body of the pastor that was discovered in the forest.
The remains of the deceased have since been deposited in the morgue at the General Hospital, Ipe-Akoko.
When contacted, the spokesperson of Ondo State Police Command, DSP Tee-Leo Ikoro confirmed the death of the pastor on Sunday.
Ikoro disclosed that the deceased’s remains were discovered tied to a tree in the forest.
He added that some other persons kidnapped along with the pastor have been rescued by the police.
The police spokesperson noted that the police is investigating the incident and hope to apprehend the perpetrators in no distant time.  Gunmen suspected to be Fulani herdsmen yesterday evening kidnapped nine travellers in Ondo State. The nine passengers were aboard a Totota Sienna, when they were waylaid by the gunmen. The passengers were heading from Abuja to Lagos but were abducted at the Akoko Isua in Akoko South-East Local Government Area… June 27, 2020 In "News" Armed men have abducted a man, his wife and one other person in Ondo State. The couple were kidnapped at Uso community in Owo Local Government Area of Ondo State on Tuesday evening while the other person, Olatunbosun Johnson (35), was abducted within the community at the weekend. The couple,… January 7, 2021 In "Metro & Crime" A couple, who was kidnap victim, Monday refutted the claim that they were rescued by a combine team of police and Amotekun Corps, last week Friday.   The couple, who were kidnapped last week at Uso, in Ondo State, faulted the claim by security agencies in the state that they… January 11, 2021 In "Metro & Crime"