The Federal Government, yesterday, announced that it had flagged-off the physical verification phase of the ongoing forensic audit of the Niger Delta Development Commission (NDDC).  The Minister of Niger Delta Affairs, Senator Godswill Akpabio, inaugurated the exercise in Uyo, Akwa Ibom, according to a statement by NDDC’s Director of Corporate Affairs, Dr Ibitoye Abosede.  The statement quoted Akpabio as saying that 16 field auditors were selected to immediately identify and verify the over 12,000 projects across the nine Niger Delta states. He said: “It is the position of President Muhammadu Buhari that for us to have a properly constituted board for the NDDC, we should first address inadequacies in NDDC, since inception.  “To this end, there is nothing our detractors have not done to stop the forensic audit. This has led some people to wonder if the forensic audit has been aborted,” he said. Akpabio attributed the slow pace of the forensic audit to budgetary delays, saying that President Buhari had intervened to save the situation.  “The President is resolute that he cannot leave the Niger Delta and NDDC the way he met it. As a demonstration of his commitment, President Buhari is funding the forensic audit from the budget of the Presidency.  “So, I wonder why some people will be peddling rumours that the forensic audit had derailed – when in fact, the exercise is ongoing,” he said. The minister faulted claims that the forensic audit was being used as a ploy to continue with the NDDC Interim Administration, insisting that the security component of the audit exercise was as important as the forensic audit itself – due to safety issues in the region.  According to him, the field visit was a critical next step that would be followed by the production of the forensic report. “The physical verification is a very serious exercise, such that its findings may lead to the prosecution of contractors, who abandoned their contracts without completing them,” he pointed out.  Dr Babayo Ardo, Permanent Secretary in the ministry, said the forensic audit of the NDDC headquarters in Port Harcourt, Rivers, had been concluded  The Federal Executive Council (FEC) has approved the appointment of Field Forensic Auditors to undertake the audit of the Niger Delta Development Commission (NDDC). Briefing State House Correspondents after a virtual Council meeting chaired by President Muhammadu Buhari at the Presidential Villa, yesterday, Minister of Niger Delta Affairs, Godswill Akpabio,… August 27, 2020 In "News" The job of the Acting Managing Director, Niger Delta Development Commission (NDDC), Professor Daniel Pondei, appears not to be threatened despite the Commission being investigated by the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) over alleged diversion of public funds. Both Pondei and the Minister of Niger Delta Affairs, Senator Godswill… November 29, 2020 In "News" The Interim Management Committee (IMC) of the Niger Delta Development Commission (NDDC) has commended President Muhammadu Buhari for approving eight forensic field auditors to audit the Commission from 2001 to 2019. The commission, in a statement by the Director, Corporate Affairs, Charles Odili, said the President approved the funding following… August 28, 2020 In "News"