There was a drama at the cargo area at the international wing of the Murtala Muhammed International Airport, Lagos, when one of the 250 cows flown into the country through the airport broke loose from its crate, leaving airport workers at the tarmac running for cover. According to information gathered, the cows, which were flown in from New Jersey, United States, by the Ekiti State government in crates on a chartered cargo special flight, were being offloaded at the Gate 3 between the Skypower Aviation Handling Company (SAHCO) and the Nigerian Aviation Handling Company (NAHCO) sheds when the incident occurred. Trouble started when one of the crates carrying the cows got damaged and the ground staff could not secure the cows after offloading which forced one of them to break loose and started running away on the tarmac of the cargo section of the airport. The drama did not last for too long as those on ground were able to bring the cow under control. The cows have successfully been loaded into waiting vehicles for their transportation to Ekiti State. The cows were said to have been imported into the country by the Ekiti State government in partnership with a private organization, Promasidor for their Dairy Farm in Ikun.  There was mild drama at the cargo area at the international wing of the Murtala Muhammed International Airport, Lagos Thursday, when one of the 250 cows flown into the country through the airport broke loose from its crate, leaving airport workers at the tarmac running for cover. According to information… April 22, 2021 In "News" The airport was in a total mess. The many years of patched job on the decaying facilities gave way to total overhauling of Enugu airport that is very strategic to the people of South-East and commerce, writes WOLE SHADARE   The wait is over   The wait is over. The… September 1, 2020 In "Business" They have waited for so long for the airport to come to reality. It has passed through different governments in the state. But now, the take-off of the Bayelsa Cargo Airport is on the horizon. PAULINE ONYIBE reports from Yenagoa on the expectations of the people   It all started… October 23, 2020 In "News"