 Sola Adeyemo, Ibadan Three suspected armed robbers, who were apprehended in the Ogbomoso area of Oyo State, were on Monday paraded at the Eleyele Police Headquarters, Ibadan, by the Police Commissioner, Mrs Ngozi Onadeko.
The suspects are: Mohammed Ishaku, Abubakar Isah, and Mohammed Bawa.
According to the Police, the trio were alleged to have been dispossessing motorists and passengers of their valuables along Oolo Expressway, Ikoyi-Ile.
The arrest according to a copy of press release made available yo journalists by the Public Relations Officer, Adewale Osifeso, was effected on April 24, 2021 at about 0900hrs, “upon the receipt of credible and timely information and swift response of the tactical team attached to Ikoyi-Ile Division to the scene of crime.
“Upon arrest, suspects were found in possession of the following items (1) Three cutlasses, (2) Eleven different handsets, (3) Cash sum of Ten thousand, one hundred and forty naira only (N10,140), (4) One MP 3, (5) One touch light, (6) One Bintu Sudan perfume, (7) Two caps, (8) One used premier soap, (9) Two fire lighters, (10) One Computer wrist watch, (11) One eye glasses and (12) Two handset batteries.”
Osifeso added that: “While investigation is still in progress, it is worthy of note that one Tunde Kazeem ‘m’ who was among the victims of the robbery incident is presently on admission at Bowen Teaching Hospital, Ogbomoso, where he is receiving treatment. Subsequent development’s will be communicated with the unfolding of events.”  A suspected armed robber, Enioluwa Adedayo (aka Judgement), has explained why police allowed him to go knowing full well that he had carried out several robbery operations in Lagos and Oyo states. The 23-year-old suspect, described as one of the most dreaded robbers in Ibadan, had been terrorising Oyo State… July 11, 2020 In "News" Two suspects have been arrested in Oyo State for allegedly buying goods and collecting money from Point of Sales (POS) operators with fake bank alerts. The suspects, Olayide Olumide (31) and Oluwemimo Adeyanju (27), were accused of purchasing clothing materials and electronics from shop owners, market women and withdrawing money… May 12, 2021 In "Metro & Crime" The Commissioner, Oyo State Police Command, Joe Nwachukwu Enwonwu, Monday explained how the suspected serial killer, 19-year-old Sunday Shodipe, who had confessed to killing over five people at Akinyele area of Ibadan escaped form police custody. The CP gave the explanation when he spoke with newsmen, saying that Shodipe escaped from… August 17, 2020 In "Metro & Crime"