 Harry Maguire’s late winner made it a maximum nine points from three World Cup 2022 qualifiers for England as they overcame Poland at Wembley.
Poland presented a much sterner test than the formalities against San Marino and Albania and it looked like England would have to settle for a point until Maguire struck five minutes from time, reports the BBC.
England’s impressive first half brought a deserved lead when Harry Kane scored his 34th international goal from the penalty spot in the 19th minute, following Michal Helik’s challenge on Raheem Sterling.
And yet England almost paid the price for a largely average performance after the break as Poland, who were without injured world-class striker Robert Lewandowski, equalised when a dreadful error by Manchester City’s John Stones saw him concede possession on the edge of the area and Jakub Moder beat Nick Pope emphatically.
It was the first goal Pope had conceded in seven England appearances and looked like being costly until Stones made amends by showing superb athleticism to head Phil Foden’s corner into the path of Maguire, who lashed a powerful drive high past Wojciech Szczesny to keep manager Gareth Southgate’s perfect record in these World Cup qualifiers intact.  England's World Cup 2022 qualifying campaign started with a predictably routine stroll to victory against San Marino at Wembley. The side rooted to the bottom of the FIFA world rankings at 210 were never going to be anything other than an easy target for England, even with captain Harry… March 26, 2021 In "Sports" England maintained their winning start to the 2022 World Cup qualifying campaign with a comfortable victory over Albania in Tirana. Albania provided more of a challenge than hapless San Marino in England's opening 5-0 win at Wembley but once they had survived an early scare when Myrto Uzuni missed… March 29, 2021 In "Sports" ...as Red Devils lose pre-season friendly 1-0 The Manchester United manager, Ole Gunnar Solskjær has confirmed Harry Maguire will continue as the club’s captain for the new season. Maguire was handed a suspended 21-month sentence last month, having been found guilty of assaulting a police officer, swearing, resisting arrest and bribery during… September 13, 2020 In "Sports"