 France reported on Saturday that 5,273 people were in intensive care units (ICU) for COVID-19, a rise of 19 from the previous day, as the country entered its third national lockdown to help combat the pandemic.
The government had been trying to keep the lid on new COVID cases with curfews and regional measures but from Saturday, and for the next four weeks, schools and non-essential businesses across the country will remain shut, reports Reuters.
The rise in ICU patients on Saturday followed a much bigger jump the day before – the highest in five months, at 145. President Emmanuel Macron has pledged more hospital beds to care for critically ill COVID-19 patients.
Macron had hoped to steer France out of the pandemic without having to impose a third national lockdown that would further batter an economy still reeling from last year’s slump.
But new strains of the virus have swept across France and much of Europe, amid a slower rollout of anti-COVID vaccines in the European Union than in some countries including Britain and the United States.  French President Emmanuel Macron has announced that people must stay indoors from 21:00 to 06:00 in Paris and eight other cities to try to curb the rapid spread of coronavirus in the country. The curfew will come into effect from Saturday and last for at least four weeks, Macron… October 14, 2020 In "Top Stories" Over the course of a single overnight shift this week, three new COVID-19 patients were rushed into Dr. Karim Debbat’s small intensive care ward in the southern French city of Arles. His service now has more virus patients than during the pandemic’s first wave, and is scrambling to create… October 9, 2020 In "Health" Belgium has announced a return to a national lockdown as the latest coronavirus figures show it has the highest infection rate in Europe. Non-essential shops and businesses offering personal services like hair salons have been ordered to close from Monday until the middle of December, reports the BBC.… October 31, 2020 In "News"