 Onyekachi Eze, Abuja Lady Chidi Onyemelukwe, daughter of Second Republic Vice President, Dr. Alex Ekwueme, has joined the Anambra State governorship race. She is among the 14 aspirants that obtained the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) nomination form.
Onyemelukwe, who was PDP governorship running mate in 2017, said she sees politics as a passion not a game, adding: “I grew up in politics and I come from a political family.”
The aspirant, who was at the PDP National Secretariat to submit her nomination form, said she was in the race because of her passion for the people of Anambra State.
“I am a second generation PDP woman. I have the fear and love of God and a sense of selfless service to offer to the people of Anambra.
“If you are talking of heavy weight, if we are put on  scale, I believe I am heavier than everyone else.
“I believe I stand out because l have the DNA of PDP. I am a core party woman from inception. Yes, new things are happening, the world is changing, women are coming up in different places,” she said.  OKEY MADUFORO reports on the bid for the ticket of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) for the forthcoming governorship election in Anambra State by the senator representing Anambra Central at the National Assembly, Mrs. Uche Ekwunife There is no doubt that the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in Anambra State led… February 25, 2021 In "Politics" Barrister Emeka Etiaba (SAN), is the son of the first female governor in Nigeria, Mrs. Virginia Etiaba. He speaks, in this interview, on his ambition to run for the Anambra governorship and his dream for the state. Okey Maduforo reports Too many questions have been asked about your ambition and… February 11, 2021 In "Politics" OKEY MADUFORO reports on the bid for the governorship ticket of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) ahead of the 2021 election in Anambra State by the senator representing Anambra Central at the National Assembly, Uche Ekwunife There is no doubt that the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in Anambra State led… November 11, 2020 In "Politics"