 Charles Ogundiya, Benin The Nigerian Basketball Federation (NBF) has assured stakeholders that the Premier League will soon resume.
President of the Federation, Musa Kida, gave this cheering news in Benin during the final of the basketball event of the 20th National Sports Festival.
“We are on the verge of concluding a deal with our sponsor, once we strike a deal the league will resume,” he said.
“Everyone is eager to have the Premier League back and for us this is our focus. We have also inform the states association and clubs  to prepare for the Division 2 and Division 1 championship. Don’t forget Total Oil is our sponsor for these.”
The basketball federation boss also revealed that the federation is working around the clock to ensure the female national outing have a good performance at the summer Olympics.
Kida added: “We have lined up series of friendlies against Belgium, Spain, Australia, Canada and United States during their camping in the US.
“We are the first African country to have its male and female teams at same  Olympics.This is unprecedented in Africa.
“For the festival, I want to give kudos to the state government and Federal Ministry of Sports for the smooth organisation seen at this National Sports Festival.
“Our youths have competed fairly and it further showcase the power in sports as a unifying factor.”  President of the Nigeria Basketball Federation, NBBF, Engr. Musa Kida, has revealed that the federation is working round the clock to ensure that the Premier Basketball League, Zenith Women's League as well as the National Divisions 1 and 2 leagues sponsored by Total holds this year.   Kida made the… February 2, 2021 In "Sports" President of the Nigeria Basketball Federation, NBBF, Engr. Musa Kida, has revealed that the federation is working round the clock to ensure that the Premier Basketball League, Zenith Women's League as well as the National Divisions 1 and 2 leagues sponsored by Total holds this year. Kida made the pledge at the… February 1, 2021 In "Sports" It was a new chapter for basketball in Nigeria after Total E&P Nigeria renewed its sponsorship of the national basketball Men’s Divisions One and Two leagues. The oil company on Tuesday signed a five-year deal with the Nigeria Basketball Federation. The deal which worths N150m will see the two-tier of… September 16, 2020 In "Sports"