…as Goke Ilesanmi, others become fellows, members  The curtains were lowered on the 28th annual conference and induction ceremony of the Institute of Information Management (IIM) Africa, where new Fellows and members were inducted to join the fold.  The President and Chairman of the Executive Council of the institute, Ambassador Oyedokun Oyewole, while welcoming guests to the event, said: “We must remind ourselves that the COVID-19 pandemic has been a human tragedy in which almost 110 million people have been infected by the virus, while over 2.4 million people have died, and several millions of livelihoods have been destroyed.”  According to him, people now depend on the outcome of the changing virus and the vaccines to end its spread, as well as the right political will for the policies to provide effective support until that happens.  The theme of the year’s conference was: “Identity Management and Data Protection Regulation: Risk, Responsibility and Compliance in Circles of Data Governance.”  However, Oyewole added: “Data and information outlooks are an essential component of our organisation’s work.  Comprehensive, accurate and fact-based analysis is crucial in supporting policy makers in taking informed decisions, especially in the current circumstances.”  In the annual scorecard of the institute presented by the President and Chairman of the Executive Council, he recalled that in the last one year, the institute engaged in various collaborations with different organisations and  The Permanent Secretary, Rivers State Ministry of Sports, Honour Sirawoo has been honoured by the Institute of Corporate Administration of Nigeria in recognition of his administrative acumen, leadership capability and outstanding performance. Sirawoo was inducted as a Fellow alongside 26 others who also bagged Fellow and Professional Members, with the… November 20, 2020 In "Sports" There is no doubt that present political dispensation in Nigeria has thrown up a few exemplary leaders, thereby justifying William Penn’s submission that “no system of government was ever so ill devised that under proper men, it wouldn’t work well enough.”   Among this few leading lights at… December 30, 2020 In "News" A growing drug epidemic appears to be silently taking over cities and towns in South Africa. The country seems to have become a key player in global drug distribution with many alleging that Nigerian dealers dominate the trade in recent times. ISIOMA MADIKE, in this report, looks at the booming… September 7, 2019 In "Investigation"