 The highly anticipated James Bond film No Time To Die will reportedly have the world’s largest premier when it will be released in September.
According to The Mirror, the film producers and MGM have allocated £10 million for the UK event.
It is reported that the premier may take place in a large stadium in London like the Wembley Arena.
The blockbuster was slated for an April 2020 release but due to the Covid-19 pandemic its premiere was pushed back multiple times.
A source speaking to the publication claimed: “They think they can pull off the biggest in-person premiere of the post-pandemic era, and have already put aside a whopping £10million for an event in England that will signal the return of these kinds of flashy movie launches that everybody’s been missing for the last year.”
“They are looking at the biggest venues in London, starting with Wembley and going down from there, and have enquired about the Staples Center in Los Angeles for a US premiere.
“MGM and the Bond team have never liked the idea of launching this movie without a red carpet event, which is one of the many reasons they’ve rolled with all the delays.”  The global release of the James Bond movie "No Time to Die" was postponed to October from April, its producers said on Thursday, another setback for movie theaters trying to rebuild a business crushed by the coronavirus pandemic. The movie's new debut date is October 8, according to… January 22, 2021 In "Arts & Entertainments" A new trailer for No Time To Die - James Bond's 25th cinema outing - has been released online. The two-minute 34 second video ups the stakes for the long-awaited movie, telling fans that this is: "The mission that changes everything." It kicks off with Bond narrowly avoiding being… September 3, 2020 In "Arts & Entertainments" *On course to be lowest since records began UK cinema admissions are set to hit their lowest level since records began almost a century ago, with the impact of the coronavirus pandemic wiping almost £1bn from box office sales. When the final ticket stubs are counted at the end of… October 12, 2020 In "Arts & Entertainments"