 Steve Uzoechi, Owerri The Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB) has distanced themselves from Monday’s attack on the Imo Police Headquarters and Owerri Correctional Services which led to the escape of suspects and inmates from both facilities.
This was contained in a press statement issued by the spokesman of the organisation, Emma Powerful and obtained electronically by our correspondent.
The group dismissed as fallacious, reports and insinuations that the recent attack by unknown gunmen on the two facilities and military checkpoints were carried out by IPOB elements.
The statement read in part: “The attention of the Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB) has been drawn again to the fallacious and fabricated news that IPOB and ESN are involved in the attack of prison and police headquarters in Owerri Imo State. IPOB and ESN are known groups and not ‘unknown gunmen’.
“ESN is in the bush chasing Fulani terrorists, why linking IPOB and ESN to this attack. IPOB and ESN were not involved in the attack in Owerri Imo State and the recent attack on Onitsha Owerri road at Ukwuorji junction. It is not our mandate to attack security personnel or prison facilities.”
The statement stressed that IPOB was formed on principle of peace and we are still in it. ‘Unknown gunmen’ is a different people which we don’t know, and they are not IPOB or ESN security outfit.  The Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB) has said that Thursday's military raid of Orlu and Orsu local government areas of Imo State marked the beginning of the 'second Nigeria/Biafra war'. IPOB which made the declaration in a press statement by its Media and Publicity Secretary Emma Powerful, said that… February 20, 2021 In "News" ...says Eastern Security Network an illegal outfit Our Reporter Some Igbo professionals operating under the auspices of Coalition of South East Professionals Network in Nigeria and Diaspora (CSEPNND), have condemned the reported attack on soldiers and police operatives in Orlu, Imo State, by persons operating in the name of Eastern… January 26, 2021 In "News" Imo State Governor, Senator Hope Uzodinma Saturday disclosed that Eastern Security Network (ESN) was the idea of the South-East Governors but was hijacked by the Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB).   The governor made the disclosure at a meeting with members of the Correspondents Chapel of the Nigeria Union of… March 14, 2021 In "News"