The Police Command in Osun State yesterday said three persons were shot during a failed kidnapping attempt at Koka Village in Ibokun Local Government Area on Sunday.  Spokesperson for the command in a statement, SP Yemisi Opalola, said suspected hoodlums armed with guns, invaded Koka Village at about 11:45p.m. on Sunday to kidnap residents.  Opalola, however, said residents and hunters of the community were able to mobilise and engage the hoodlums in a gun battle, thereby aborting the kidnap operation.  She said: “At about 11:45p.m. on Sunday, unidentified hoodlums attacked Koka Village in Ibokun Local Government Area and attempted to abduct some villagers. “Consequently, villagers and hunters mobilised and engaged the hoodlums in a gun battle and librated themselves.  Three villagers and hunters, however, sustained bullet wounds during the rescue operation. “The injured victims are receiving treatment at the State Hospital in Asubiaro, Osogbo and they are responding to treatment.  “The police have, however, drafted officers to join the locals to carry out a cordon and search operation in the area. Efforts are also ongoing to apprehend the fleeing culprits.”  The Osun State Police Command on Saturday morning confirmed the release of the seven abducted travellers along Osogbo/Obokun road. According to reports, suspected herdsmen on Tuesday night around 7:30pm stormed the road after Ajenbandele village in Ibokun Council Area of Osun State and abducted an unknown number of travellers.… March 6, 2021 In "Metro & Crime" Hoodlums on Sunday evening unleashed terror on the Oranyan community, Ibadan in Oyo State, and shot four people. The hoodlums, numbering about 100, also vandalised vehicles and looted shops. One of the victims, Badmus Yusuf, said the hoodlums stole N800,000 from his shop. The fracas, which occurred at Onideore, Ogundipe… January 5, 2021 In "Metro & Crime" Again, two travellers abducted in Osun   Armed men yesterday morning kidnapped a senior police officer, ASP Clement Amoko, with the State Intelligence Bureau of the Edo State Police Command.   The gunmen invaded Amoko's house at Ogida Quarters in Benin and forced their way into his apartment. It was… March 8, 2021 In "Metro & Crime"