 Adewumi Ademiju, Ado -Ekiti Abductors struck again in Ekiti State
on Thursday evening when they invaded the palace of the Obadu of  Ilemeso, Oba David Oyewumi and kidnapped him.
Ilemeso, in Oye Local gGovernment Area of Ekiti State, is a neighbouring town to the Isan Ekiti country home of Governor Kayode Fayemi.
The latest incident is coming barely a week after suspected bandits rained bullets on a car conveying the Elewu of Ewu Ekiti, Oba Adetutu Ajayi along Ewu-Ayetoro road and injured the traditional ruler.
This time around, the gunmen, numbering six, had scaled the fence of the Oba’s palace and shot sporadically to scare the occupants, a source said
The source added that the incident happened around 8.30 pm, when the chiefs, who had earlier visited the place, had dispersed.
“In the process of shooting, they gained entrance into the bungalow where the traditional ruler and members of his family were and started beating them.
“They were asking after the monarch which showed that they really came for him and not any other person.
“Immediately they sighted him, they apprehended him and took him out of the palace,” the source narrated.
When contacted, the Police Public Relations Officer, Ekiti Command, ASP Sunday Abutu, confirmed the incident, describing it as regrettable .  ...Traditional rulers condemn incidence There was fear and tension in Ekiti State on Friday evening as suspected gunmen sporadically shot at a traditional ruler, Elewu of Ewu Ekiti, Ilejemeje Local Government Area, Oba Adetutu Ajayi in his car . The monarch, who narrowly escaped death, was said to have sustained… April 11, 2021 In "News" ...Traditional rulers condemn act Adewumi Ademiju, Ado-Ekiti There apprehension in Ekiti State on Friday evening as suspected gunmen shot a traditional ruler, the Elewu of Ewu Ekiti in Ilejemeje Local Government, Oba Adetutu Ajayi, while he was being driven in his car. The  monarch was said to have sustained gunshot injuries and is… April 10, 2021 In "Metro & Crime" Since the outbreak of Coronavirus, government has set up many preventive measures urging citizens to strictly abide by the rules in order to tame spread of the pandemic especially in various communities. Part of the guidelines is limiting people's gathering to 20 in number. The state government also issued some… August 19, 2020 In "City Life"