 Floyd Mayweather’s exhibition fight against Logan Paul is back on, with the fight now scheduled to take place on June 6 at Hard Rock Stadium in Miami.
Mayweather, a five-weight world champion with a 50-0 record, was originally due to take on YouTuber-turned-boxer Paul in February, reports Sky Sports.
Announcing the fight on Instagram, Mayweather wrote: “Me and Logan Paul will be fighting at the Hardrock Stadium.
“@mayweatherpromotions @fanmio and @showtimeboxing have come together to bring an epic Event!!!
“Tickets will be going on sale next week.”
Mayweather last fought professionally in August 2017 when he stopped UFC star Conor McGregor in the 10th round. It was McGregor’s first – and, to date, only – professional boxing match.
Mayweather also took on Japanese kickboxer and mixed martial artist Tenshin Nasukawa in an exhibition match in December 2018, recording a first-round knockout.
Paul has only one fight on his record, a split-decision loss to fellow YouTuber KSI in November 2019.
His younger brother Jake has had more success, boasting three wins from three bouts – his latest coming when he knocked out Ben Askren in the first round earlier this month.  Floyd Mayweather will return to the boxing ring in February for an exhibition bout against YouTube personality Logan Paul, the undefeated former world champion announced on Instagram on Sunday. Mayweather, 43 and with an unblemished record of 50-0, last fought professionally in August 2017 when he won by TKO… December 7, 2020 In "Sports" Oscar De La Hoya on Friday said he is coming out of retirement to fight on July 3 against a yet-to-be-named opponent in what will be the 48-year-old's first bout since 2008. De La Hoya wants to take on Floyd Mayweather, Yahoo Sports reported, which is no surprise… March 28, 2021 In "Sports" *Predicts early KO Tyson Fury believes Anthony Joshua has a confidence problem and claims he could knock out his heavyweight rival inside two rounds. A unification fight is potentially on the cards this year between WBC champion Fury and Joshua, who holds the WBA, IBF, WBO and IBO belts. Speaking after beating Kubrat… January 4, 2021 In "Sports"