 Tony Okuyeme Veteran filmmaker and media
personality, Ladi Ladebo is dead.
He passed on on Friday, April 16 in London United Kingdom, at age 78, his family announced in a statement.
The statement, signed by Precious Ladebo Osagie for the family, reads: “With gratitude to God for a life well lived, we announce the passing on to glory of our dearly beloved, husband, father and grandfather, Raymond Oladipupo Ladebo who passed away peacefully on Friday the 16th of April 2021 in London United Kingdom; he was 78 years old.
“An intimate memorial service will be held on May 7th, 2021 in London, UK.
“Ladi as he was fondly called, was survived by his wife Irene Ladebo, his three daughters and two grand children.”
Born, May 7, 1942, ‘Uncle Ladi’ as he was known in the film and media circuits in Nigeria, was a renowned producer and director of famous works such as ‘Bisi – Daughter of the River’ (co-author/producer), 1977; ‘Countdown at Kusini’ (co-author/producer) 1974 in collaboration with Ossie Davis; ‘The Silent Sufferer’ (on WF) 1992 in collaboration with UNESCO/UNFPA; ‘Vendor’ (writer/ director) 1987 for MAMSER, and several television serials, including ‘Pariah’ and ‘The Thrift Collector’, which starred ace actors Albert Egbe and maverick artiste, Tar Ukor, among other major stars.
Holder of a Bachelor of Science in Business Administration from the
Bowling GreenState University, Ohio, USA (1968), he also earned an MBA in Marketing from the New York University Graduate School of
Business in 1969.
Before taking up film production fully, he had worked as Media Analyst/Account Executive with Ogilvy & Mather, New York, USA,
1969-72; Clerk, Central Bank, 1963-65.
A multi-award-winning filmmaker, he earned several laurels while active in his beloved filmmaking venture. These include: Best Script, Best Photography, Best Director and Best Feature Film, for ‘Vendor’ at the first Nigerian Film Festival in 1992.  ‘Cult Boy’, the latest flick from the stable of Hilton Oduwa Idahosa, a Nigerian-born actor and filmmaker based in London, United Kingdom, tells the story of cult war. He doubles as both the executive producer and producer, with another Nigerian movie maker, Ben Ebuehi, as co-producer. The director of this… April 2, 2021 In "Arts & Entertainments" Eyimofe, a Nollywood movie which depicts the quest of Nigerians to emigrate to foreign shores for greener pastures, is set for premiere in Lagos on April 18. The premiere of the movie is expected to take place at EbonyLife place in Victoria Island, Lagos, according to a statement by GDN… March 26, 2021 In "Arts & Entertainments" There is no doubt that the outgoing year, 2020, has proved to be a lethal year as it has claimed the lives of many Nigerians, including some prominent politicians and influential personalities. Some of the deaths, mostly shocking, were said to be as a result of COVID-19 related complications, while… December 29, 2020 In "Politics"