The Vice President Professor Yemi Osinbajo will on Tuesday declare the Edo 2020 National sports Festival opened with the commissioning of facilities.
According to the programme of event for the opening ceremony, Professor Osinbajo will pay homage to the Oba of Benin before proceeding to the Dr. Samuel Ogbemudia Stadium for the ceremonial opening.  The programme starts at 7 and runs for two hours with performance of the rich Edo cultural heritage, while musician Fire Boy would also be entertaining.  Minister of Youth and sports Development Chief Sunday is expected to officially welcome the athletes, while Governor Godwin Obaseki and his Deputy Comrade Philip Shaibu will also be speaking on their readiness for the Festival. To ensure compliance with the Covid-19 Protocol, there will be restrictions to the Samuel Ogbemudi Stadium with people gaining access with only invitation cards, while states will be allowed only 20 athletes for the ceremonial.  The PTF is insisting that all guests and athletes should obey laid down protocol.  A record 550 Volunteers will be on hand at Festival for a hitchfree event   Edo State has assured the nation that it is ready to host the national sports festival set to begin on Tuesday. Chairman of the Local Organising Committee LOC, Mr Phillip Shuiabu, gave this assurance while inspecting facilities meant for the games.   He said the state will make the festival… April 5, 2021 In "Sports" The 2020 edition of the National Sports Festival,like the character, Abiku,in J P Clark-Bekederemo’s epoch poem,”Abiku”, has been coming and going these several seasons. The biennial sports fiesta will berth In the historical city of Benin, Edo State from April 2, to 14,2021.The national event was set to take place… April 2, 2021 In "Sports" The officials of the Presidential Task Force on COVID-19 and Nigeria Centre for Disease Control will arrive Benin City four days to the commencement of the National Sports Festival, to monitor compliance with the protocols of the pandemic.   According to feelers from the office of the Chairman of the… March 22, 2021 In "Sports"