Prince Philip, the late husband of Britain’s Queen Elizabeth II, was laid to rest Saturday in the royal vault at St. George’s Chapel. The Dean of Windsor gave a commendation as Philip’s coffin was lowered, saying; “Go forth upon thy journey from this world, O Christian soul.”  He opened the funeral service with a reading from the book of Ecclesiastics. “Look at the rainbow and praises its Maker; it shines with a supreme beauty, rounding the sky with its gleaming arc, a bow bent by the hands of the Most High,” the reading said.  A choir sang “The Jubilate,” a song written for St. George’s Chapel by Benjamin Britten at the request of the Duke of Edinburgh, before the Archbishop of Canterbury read from the book of John. Prince Philip agreed on plans for his funeral service while he was alive, according to Buckingham Palace.  Much of the music is personal to the Duke of Edinburgh. He requested that William Lovelady should set Psalm 104 to music.  The piece was originally composed as a cantata in three movements, and was first sung in honor of the Duke’s 75th birthday. The Queen, Prince Harry, Prince William and Prince Charles attended the funeral.  The royal family adhered strictly to the UK Covid-19 regulations during the funeral and as such, the Queen sat alone during the service to follow current restrictions. All guests who were not members of the same household had to sit around 2 meters apart.  Philip was heavily involved in the planning for the funeral and the day is reflective of his life and service to the Queen, country and Commonwealth. The funeral for Prince Philip was a somber affair Saturday full of tradition and reverence  The Duke of Edinburgh's funeral will take place next Saturday at 15:00 BST at St George's Chapel, in Windsor, Buckingham Palace has announced. The arrangements, which "celebrate" a life of service and "very much" reflect the duke's wishes, have been adapted in light of the coronavirus pandemic, reports the… April 10, 2021 In "News" Britain's Prince Philip will not have a state funeral nor lie in state for the public to pay their respects ahead of the funeral, the College of Arms said, with arrangements revised to meet COVID restrictions, reports Reuters. "The funeral will not be a State Funeral and will… April 9, 2021 In "News" President Muhammadu Buhari has described the death of the Duke of Edinburgh and Queen Elizabeth of England's husband, Prince Philip, as the end of an era. Buhari joined a chorus of condolences from other current and former world leaders around the world following the death of Prince Philip on Friday… April 10, 2021 In "News"