 Cephas Iorhemen, Makurdi Heavily armed militants suspected to be of Fulani extraction on Wednesday attacked Tse-Zoola community in Makurdi Local Government Area of Benue State, killed and butchered two people including a village chief, Zaki Hyacinth Ajon and Benjamin Anakula.
The attack which took place at about 2a.m., forced many residents of the community to flee for their lives.
New Telegrapgh learnt that the assailants attacked the people in a guerilla style and immediately left the area.
But shortly after the insurgents left, Governor Samuel Ortom, who was returning from the burial of former Director General Services and Administration (DGSA), Mrs. Bridget Mom, wife of former Guma Local Government Chairman Sebastian Mom, met sympathizers who thronged to the scene of the attack to witness what had happened.
Narrating what transpired to the governor, the oldest man in the community, Aho Zoola said: “The militia herdsmen without any provocation, attacked our community around 2am when the people were deeply asleep, and killed Zaki Hyacinth Ajon and Benjamin Anakula.”  Armed militants have attacked Tse-Zoola community in Makurdi Local Government Area of Benue State, killed a village chief, Zaki Hyacinth Ajon, and a resident, Benjamin Anakula. The attack, which occurred about 2am, forced many residents of the community to flee for their lives. Residents of the community said the attackers… April 23, 2021 In "Metro & Crime" Fulani herdsmen have attacked and killed four people and left seven battling with various degrees of injuries at Tse-Angbande in Makurdi Local Government Area of Benue State. Governor Samuel Ortom, who visited the scene of the attack on Saturday morning, said the armed herdsmen in their usual guerrilla pattern… December 12, 2020 In "Metro & Crime" Gunmen yesterday killed several villagers at Umuoguduakpu community in Ohaukwu Local Government Area of Ebonyi State.   The attack came barely 24 hours after the South-East governors formed a joint security task force codenamed EBUBEAGU. In the attack, houses, shops and other valuables were burnt. The attacks occurred at Otebu,… April 13, 2021 In "Metro & Crime"