 Barcelona President Joan Laporta has said he is “convinced” Lionel Messi wants to stay at the club after he scored twice in the team’s thumping 4-0 win over Athletic Bilbao in the Copa del Rey final on Saturday.
Messi is yet to confirm whether he will stay this summer, with the possibility that his seventh Copa del Rey triumph could be the last trophy he wins for Barca.
“Leo is the best player in the world, he is a player who is deeply rooted in the club, who loves Barca,” said Laporta after the final in Seville.
“I am convinced that he wants to stay and we already know that we are going to do everything in our power, within the possibilities of the club, to ensure he continues with us. It is what we want the most.”
Messi scored a spectacular goal that he started in his own half at La Cartuja before rounding off the victory with a strike into the corner for his 31st goal of the season, reports the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN).
It is the 13th consecutive campaign that Messi has scored more than 30 goals for Barcelona.
“Leo put on an exhibition today,” Laporta added.  Barcelona scored four goals in 12 minutes - including a brilliant strike from Lionel Messi - to thrash Athletic Bilbao and win the Copa del Rey. Barca were frustrated until the 60th minute when Antoine Griezmann turned in Frenkie de Jong's cross before De Jong headed in himself three… April 18, 2021 In "Sports" Joan Laporta is adamant Lionel Messi wants to remain with Barcelona, while he is confident Eric Garcia will join at the end of the season.   Lionel Messi will "do everything in his power" to stay at Barcelona as long as he receives a suitable offer, according to presidential candidate… January 17, 2021 In "Sports" Barcelona's all-time leading goalscorer Lionel Messi says he is staying because it is "impossible" for any team to pay his release clause and he does not want to face "the club I love" in court. The Argentine, 33, sent a fax to Barca last Tuesday saying he wanted to exercise a… September 4, 2020 In "Sports"