 Intelligence report gathered by the Nigerian Air Force indicates that the Alpha Jet aircraft (NAF475) that went off the radar with 2 crew members on board on March 31, 2021 might have crashed.
A statement by the Director Public Relations and Information, Air Commodore Edward Gabkwet, noted that the cause of the crash as well as the whereabouts of the two pilots remains unknown.
The pilots are Flight Lieutenant John Abolarinwa and Flight Lieutenant Ebiakpo Chapele.
It added that extensive search and rescue efforts are still ongoing by NAF surveillance aircraft as well as NAF Special Forces and Nigerian Army troops on ground.
The NAF said at this point, it is not ruling out anything regarding the incident.
It however remains hopeful that the crew would soon be found and rescued. Earlier, Oladayo Amao, the Chief of Air Staff, visited the NAF base in Maiduguri to be briefed on the ongoing search and rescue efforts in connection with the jet.
He asked pilots, engineers and technicians to remain undeterred and resolute in their commitment to ensuring that peace returns to the north-east.
In February, an aircraft of the air force crashed at the Abuja airport — with all seven personnel on board dead.  …as CAS storms Maiduguri Fresh insight emerged last night that there is still no trace of the missing Nigerian Air Force (NAF) Alpha Jet, which was on an interdiction mission in Borno State, the epicentre of Boko Haram insurgency, after losing contact with the radar. The NAF Alpha Jet, which… April 2, 2021 In "News" Tragedy befell the nation yesterday as a Beechcraft KingAir B350i belonging to the Nigerian Air Force (NAF) crashed some 200 metres away from the Nnamdi Azikiwe International Airport (NAIA), killing all seven personnel aboard.   The ill-fated aircraft, which took-off from Minna, the Niger State capital, was said to have… February 22, 2021 In "News" Seven personnel of the Nigerian Air Force (NAF) killed in last Sunday's Beechcraft KingAir B350i crash, will be buried on Thursday at the National Cemetery in Abuja. The disclosure was contained in an invitation sent to some media organisations on Wednesday. New Telegraph recalls that the Beechcraft crashed some 200… February 24, 2021 In "News"