 Stephen Olufemi Oni, Ilorin One Alhaji Alaga Olayemi, a big time farmer, has been kidnapped in Oke Onigbin in Isin Local Government Area of Kwara State penultimate Wednesday by unknown gunmen suspected to be Fulani herdsmen.
According to some villagers in the community who confided in this medium, Olayemi and his two aides were ambushed by their attackers around 7 pm while returning home from their maize farm near Oke Onigbin.
While the two aides were lucky to have escaped being abducted, their boss was, however, not that lucky as he was reported to have been immediately whisked off by the assailants. The two aides, however, were said to have escaped with severe injuries they sustained from matchete cuts inflicted on them by the marauders.
It was learnt that the dastardly incident has thrown Oke Onigbin community and its environs into tension as villagers are reportedly now living in great fear.
It was also gathered that the abductors are yet to contact the family of the kidnapped farmer or the police for demand of any ransom to be paid.
One of the villagers, who spoke under the condition of anonymity, said: “It is lamentable that Kwara South region, hitherto a haven place, has now turned to be a habitable place for criminal elements since few months back while government and security agencies have not been able to arrest the situation.
“Several civil society organisations, including Ekiti Igbomina Youth Agenda, have raised the alarm and pleaded with the government to take urgent steps at arresting the situation but the government appears to be treating the growing insecurity within Kwara South with levity.
“There was a report that a monarch who was kidnapped by gunmen from far away Ekiti State was rescued in Kwara State by  combined operatives of Amotekun and local hunters. This is highly embarrassing and only suggests that the three tiers of government and the security agencies are sleeping on issues of insecurity across the country.
“We therefore call on the administration of Governor AbdulRahman AbulRazaq to rise up to the occasion by nipping the issue of insecurity in the bud across the state since no meaningful development can be made where there is anarchy and chaos.”
The kidnap incident was, however, confirmed by the Kwara State Police Command’s spokesman, SP Okasanmi Ajayi.  Two days after a petrol station owner, Mrs Sherifat Adisa of Subawah petroleum, and two children were killed and a medical doctor was kidnapped in the Ibarapa North Local Government Area of Oyo State, another farmer, Monsuru Aderoju, was kidnapped on Monday evening. The suspected gunmen kidnapped Aderoju, at Oke… January 5, 2021 In "Metro & Crime" It has been a harrowing experience for the government and people of Kaduna State since 2015. The state has moved from one form of violence to another, ranging from killings, banditary, kidnapping and other vices. BABA NEGEDU reports that many are now wondering about what went wrong with the once… December 23, 2020 In "City Life" el-Rufai seeks stakeholders’ help to rescue kidnap victims   Baba Negedu KADUNA Bandits currently ravaging Kaduna State yesterday invaded Rema Primary School, Magajin Gari Ward 2, Birnin Gwari Local Government Area and abducted three teachers.   The gunmen, who rode on 15 motorcycles, attacked the school about 8.50am and abducted… March 16, 2021 In "Metro & Crime"