A chieftain of Afenifere, the pan Yoruba Sociopolitical group, Chief Kole Omololu, yesterday, described as pretentious and an effort to hoodwink the people of the South, the pronounced readiness of some leaders of Northern extraction for restructuring.  Omololu, who is the Organising Secretary of the mainstream Yoruba organization, said the conditions given by the Northern leaders for restructuring are not acceptable to the right thinking people of the South.  In his statement made available to reporters yesterday, Omololu said the South would always insist on restructuring which includes state police, regional armies, regional customs and immigration. The statement read,  “The North has the right to state the conditions under which it will continue to stay in Nigeria. The South has the right to state its own terms.  “It must be reiterated that no useful purpose is served when stakeholders issue threats or arrogate to themselves power to determine who occupies the highest position in the land or not.”  Omololu said the communiqué issued by some Northern leaders pretended to advocate one united, just and equitable nation.  However, he said the Northern leaders’ communiqué was silent on the unprecedented kidnapping, brigandage, forceful occupation of farm lands and destruction of communities in the southern parts of the country.  The Afenifere chieftain condemned the activities of the bandits and kidnappers in the southern parts of the country.  His words: “Would the Northern People’s Summit expound on equitable representation of the South in the headship of the country’s security, intelligence, paramilitary and other national institutions? “We notice the threats against Southerners in the North. We in the South are not helpless as we were in 1966.  The North may find that it is weaker in 2021 than it was in 1966. “The time has come for an all-inclusive national dialogue of all stakeholders and nationalities.  We should not be inhibited by past failures and half measures.  A clean state presents itself. Let us put our imprint on it. Eminent, detribalized personalities across the country should seize the initiative to bring all parties to a dialogue.”  Afenifere, the pan Yoruba Socio-political group has appointed Chief Ayo Adebanjo as Acting Leader following stepping aside of its leader,Chief Reuben Fasoranti. Fasoranti, who named Adebanjo as his successor also named Oba Oladipo Olaitan, the Alaago of Kajola Ago in Atakunmosa East Local Government Area of Osun State as the… March 17, 2021 In "News" Johnson Ayantunji   Yoruba socio-political organisation, Afenifere Renewal Group (ARG), through its National Publicity Secretary, Yinka Odumakin, has said that the Yoruba nation can survive on its own should Nigeria break up or be restructured.   Odumakin who said this in a reaction to the statement credited to former interim… October 4, 2020 In "News" Anayo Ezugwu writes on the life and times of pro-democracy activist and spokesperson of Yoruba socio-political group, Afenifere, Yinka Odumakin, who passed on at the weekend     The Yoruba nation is bereaved. On Saturday, April 3, the region lost one of its illustrious sons, in the person of the… April 5, 2021 In "Politics"