The Ondo State Governorship Election Petition Tribunal has fixed April 21 to deliver judgement in the petition seeking to upturn the victory of Governor Oluwarotimi Akeredolu at the October 10, 2020 poll. The three-man panel led by Justice Umar Abubakar announced this through a notice to all parties in the case on Friday. The parties had on February 25 adopted their written addresses before the Tribunal sitting in Akure, the state capital. The governorship candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Eyitayo Jegede, had in the petition filed before the Tribunal challenged the outcome of the last governorship election in the state. Jegede alleged that Akeredolu and his deputy, Lucky Aiyedatiwa, were not validly nominated. During the Tribunal sitting, the defence counsel had pleaded with the court to dismiss Jegede’s petition on several grounds. Counsel to Akeredolu and Aiyedatiwa, Akin Olujimi and that of the APC, Lateef Fagbemi, said the petitioner had admitted in paragraph 12 of its petition, the sponsorship of third and first respondents but failed to prove that they were not validly nominated.  The Election Petition Tribunal sitting in Akure, the Ondo State capital, will in April determine whether or not Governor Oluwarotimi Akeredolu was validly nominated by his party, the All Progressives Congres (APC) for last year's governorship election. The Tribunal fixed the day in April after lawyers to the petitioner; Onyechi… February 25, 2021 In "Metro & Crime" Candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in the October 10, 2020 governorship election in Ondo State, Eyitayo Jegede (SAN) and his party yesterday at the election petition tribunal closed their case against Governor Oluwarotimi Akeredolu (SAN) and the All Progressives Congress (APC). At the resumed hearing yesteday, Jegede declined… January 14, 2021 In "News" There was pandemonium at the High Court Road, Akure, the Ondo State capital, venue of the ongoing tribunal hearing petitions against Governor Oluwarotimi Akeredolu’s emergence during the October 10 governorship election as the supporters of the All Progressives Congress (APC) and the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) engaged in a free… December 9, 2020 In "News"