 When he is not talking about equity, equality or empowerment for Canada’s minority black communities, Beausoleil Victor Emmanuel Mervyn will likely be showcasing development activities taking place in African communities, especially in Ghana.
But, occasionally, too, he talks about himself and his values.
“My philosophy about life is simple: Be the change you want to see in the world,” he said recently in an interview, adding: “I strive daily to be the best husband, father and community leader I can be.”
As a father, Beausoleil, who is known as Vicsoleil on Instagram, said “family is everything.”
According to him: “Words cannot express my genuine passion for husbandry and fatherhood, my two most important roles as a man. I work diligently to study and learn from my elders and apply the actionable insights I gather from the lived experiences of those that came before me.”
Vicsoleil also explained how he monitors his four children, saying: “Active leadership and demonstration is imperative for early childhood development. Children rarely completely do what you say, but they will do what they see or what you show them. Experiential learning, reading and writing, language classes, travel, family actives; educational game nights, movie nights and my children participating in my businesses and philanthropic endeavours are how I model leadership for them.”
Of the big lessons he has learned from life so far, Vicsoleil reflected: “One, it is important to keep your circle small and the walls tall. Two, it is good spiritual hygiene to not give any and everyone access to you. And three, family is the best investment in life. It is important you invest in your children every day of your life. The investment will yield dividends.”  A non-governmental organisation, One Million Teachers, a Canada-based social enterprise geared towards providing access to high quality teacher education to severely underserved communities around the world, has kicked off His Highness, Muhammad Sanusi II Social Development Goals Challenge (SDG) code-named HH MSII SDG Challenge in Nigeria.   The HH MS11… September 15, 2020 In "Education" Award-winning journalist, author, women rights activist and Founder of CEE-HOPE, a non-profit child’s rights and development organisation, Ms. Betty Abah, in this interview, with OLuwatosin Omoniyi, speaks on gender equality and the place of women in today’s society What is main aim for your programme on empowerment of the girl-child… March 19, 2021 In "Feminique" Nigeria Afropop singer, Joel Amadi is still living through the nightmare of losing his dad on July 24, 2020 to the current killings happening in Southern Kaduna communities. Amadi Didam’s tragic death serves as an eye opener that the people butchered everyday in Southern Kaduna are not aliens but real… August 23, 2020 In "Body & Soul"