Former President, Olusegun Obasanjo has accused the Military and politicians of destroying local government administration in Nigeria.  The former President lamented that the situation in the 774 local governments have been worsened, as they could not even afford graders to make their roads motorable among other functions highlighted by the 1976 Local Government Reform.  Obasanjo, according to a statement by his Special Assistant on Media, Kehinde Akinyemi in Abeokuta yesterday, spoke when the new President of the National Union of Local Government Employees (NULGE), Comrade Akeem Olatunji Ambali paid him a visit at his Olusegun Obasanjo Presidential Library (OOPL) Penthouse residence in Abeokuta.  The former President said the survival of the current state of local government administration in the country is in the hand God, urging local government workers in the country to be prayerful for things to get better.  Obasanjo lamented that local government reforms have been degraded by the states’ executives. His words: “I am of the view that the situation needs prayers.  A situation whereby a local government cannot even afford a grader to make local roads motorable, a situation where they cannot build hospital or provide for the educational needs of their people is not what we want the local government to be when we created the 1976 Reform.  “Well, the rot actually started by the military, who wanted to have such local councils in their respective areas. This increased the number to 774 from about 300. “But, the politicians further made it worse with corruption.  These were not what we envisioned, when we created local governments reform in 1976. Local governments are expected to provide overall quality of life for the people who reside in their communities, but is that what we have now? Obasanjo queried.  Earlier, the new NULGE National President, Comrade Akeem Ambali, intimated the former President on the recent happenings, disclosing that the Union needed his intervention and contribution on the planned delisting of local government from the 1999 Constitution by the National Assembly.  Ambali described the bill as an attempt to kill local government administration in the country. According to him, union leaders have been mandated to visit members of the lower chambers in their constituencies as part of advocacy and engagement to ensure    they stand with the people.  He said: “Delisting the local government from the constitution is grievous. Even with it still functional, they capitalise on the lacuna in section 7 (6 A&B), which permits the Houses of Assembly to legislate and appropriate funds for local governments, to mismanage local government funds.  “If they can perpetuate this illegality despite the constitutional provisions, it will be worse when the local government is delisted.  This is because money meant for development at the grassroots will be credited to the state government and governors and nobody will be responsible for the growth and development of the local government.  “We decided to come and inform you about this inhumane step, which you genuinely created in 1976. It will rubbish the good intentions that you had and completely mess up the councils  The Presidency, yesterday, launched a frontal attack on former President Olusegun Obasanjo, accusing him of fanning the embers of disunity and promoting ethnic and religious nationalism in Nigeria.   Similarly, the All Progressives Congress (APC) has dismissed the former President as someone unfit to chart a new way forward… September 14, 2020 In "News" … recommend special courts to prosecute bandits, kidnappers, terrorists …urge Nigerians to desist from blame game, ethnic back-up to crimes   Former President Olusegun Obasanjo and renowned Islamic scholar, Sheik Ahmad Gumi, yesterday met behind closed-doors, with a call for the establishment of special courts to “deal promptly with cases… April 5, 2021 In "News" Obasanjo’s verdict on Buhari govt  prompts call for national dialogue   Felix Nwaneri reports on the raging debate over claims by former President Olusegun Obasanjo that Nigeria has joined the ranks of a failed states under the watch of President Muhammadu Buhari   Former President Olusegun Obasanjo has achieved feats… September 21, 2020 In "Politics"