 Some yet-to-identified people again attempted to attack Chief Sunday Adeyemo (aka Igboho), a Yoruba Freedom fighter at his Soka residence, Ibadan, in Oyo State.
Mr Koiki Olayomi and Dapo Salami, have confirmed the futile attack on Chief Sunday Igboho.
According to them, the attackers stormed the house around 1:30 am on Monday and attempted to set it ablaze but they were resisted by the vigilant security aides of Igboho.
Though, the two aides didn’t confirm if there were an exchange of gunshots, it was learnt that the two sides exchanged gunfire.
Koiki, on his Facebook page said the gunmen invaded the home of Sunday Igboho located at Soka area of Ibadan in the early hours of Monday.
Some residents of the area said they were praying earnestly while the shooting lasted.
Though, one of the spokespersons alleged that the gunmen were from government, there was nothing to prove this claim.
Koiki warned that if the security agents did not leave his boss alone, it might be the beginning of the problem that the government was waiting for.
Koiki said: “The gunmen came exactly 1.30 am. They attempted to enter the house but they were resisted. I cannot confirm the number of those who came. But, they came and they were resisted.
“We are not suspecting anyone, but we know that some people came. They came and they were resisted, that is just it.”  ●We've commenced investigations – PPRO ●Amotekun arrests 25 men with 25 guns   House of Yoruba rights activist, Chief Sunday Adeyemo aka Sunday Igboho, at Soka area of Ibadan, Oyo State was torched yesterday by some suspected arsonists.   But Igboho has claimed that his residence was set ablaze by… January 27, 2021 In "Metro & Crime" Agitation against killing, kidnapping, robbing and raping of innocent people in Oyo, particularly, Ibarapa zone of the state, reached an unbearable crescendo last week when civilian self- help was introduced to nip it in the bud since it appeared the government was helpless. A youthful Yoruba defender and agitator for… February 3, 2021 In "City Life" Police PRO: We’ve commenced investigations   Sola Adeyemo, Ibadan   The embattled Yoruba rights activist and warlord, Chief Sunday Adeyemo (a.k.a Sunday Igboho) whose house at Soka area of Ibadan, Oyo State capital was torched by some suspected arsonists, has revealed that the deed was carried out by Fulani herdsmen… January 26, 2021 In "Metro & Crime"