 Ahmed Idris, Birnin Kebbi A Divisional Police Officer (DPO) and four Mobile Police (MOPOL) operatives are believed to have killed in an attack by bandits on Sunday in Dankolo, Sakaba, Makuku, Dokar Kambari and Kurmin Hodo villages in Sakaba Local Government Area of Kebbi State.
Security sources, who confirmed the attack to our correspondent, said two vigilante operatives, popularly known as ’Yan Sa Kai’, and an unspecified number of residents of the villages were also killed.
“The bandits too suffered heavy casualties from our men,” one of the sources said.
A resident, Salisu Adamu, said: “The bandits started attacking our villages since around 8a.m., please we need your prayers.
“They have killed the DPO, Jimoh Abdullahi, four policemen and two ’Yan sa Kai’. They killed seven people in Inana village alone.
“They carted away thousands of cattle from Dankolo, Sakaba, Makuku, Dokar Kambari and Kurmin Hodo villages and many other food items.
“They came on more than 100 motorcycles, well-armed and started shooting sporadically which prompted the village people to flee for safety in different directions.”
Husseini Bala, another source from Dirin Daji, claimed that seven mobile police officers, the DPO and his orderly were missing.  ...abduct three in Niger   Again, daredevil bandits have struck in two local government areas of Kaduna State and killed at least seven people. Also, bandits invaded Katcha Local Government Area of Niger State yesterday and abducted three people.   In Kaduna State, the first attacks occurred in two communities… March 1, 2021 In "Metro & Crime" ...injure many, abduct several villagers Recruit, train youths in Kebbi Bandits numbering about 100 yesterday attacked a Joint Security Task Force camp in Shiroro Local Government Area of Niger State and killed seven people, among them five soldiers. The Joint Force, which comprises the Army, Police, Nigeria Security and Civil… April 2, 2021 In "Metro & Crime" Military neutralises three bandits, rescues 26 victims     At least 12 people were killed while seven others were injured when gunmen invaded communities in Kaduna State. Several villagers were still unaccounted for. The attack took place at Kidandan and Kadai villages in Giwa Local Government Area.   The attackers… October 12, 2020 In "Metro & Crime"