 Again, bandits have attacked Christian worshippers at a church in Manini Tasha village, Kuriga Ward in Chukun local government area of Kaduna State, on Sunday morning.
One person, identified as a medical doctor, was killed while an unspecified number of worshippers were abducted by the attackers.
An eyewitness, who narrowly escaped the scene at Haske Baptist Church in Manini village, Mr Yakubu Bala, said the bandits, who were heavily armed stormed the church and surrounded the worshippers at about 9am.
He explained that the bandits came in their number, heavily armed and began to shoot sporadically at the worshipers, who scampered for safety in different directions.
According to him: “Dr. Zakariah Dogo Yaro, a medical doctor with the Kaduna State Ministry of Health was shot dead and unspecified number of people kidnapped while many worshipers sustained varying degrees of injuries.
“As am talking to you now, we have not seen some of our villagers who ran into the bushes while the shootings were going on.
“We don’t know what’s happening that we are facing this kind of scenario in our peaceful communities. Most villagers are threatening to leave their homes because of the constant attacks on so many villages in Chukun local government,” Yakubu lamented.  Bandits have again killed at least two people and kidnapped nine others in communities in Kaduna State. Many of those kidnapped were women and children. In one of the communities, the bandits also burnt a Catholic church and two other residential homes.   The first attack occurred on Saturday night… February 22, 2021 In "Metro & Crime" …communities sacked, houses burnt, warehouses looted   Armed men again struck in three communities in Kaduna State and killed at least 23 people. The gunmen also injured several villagers and abducted many others. The bandits also sacked villages, burnt shops, warehouses and looted others.   The attacks occurred in Birnin… February 8, 2021 In "Metro & Crime" Gunmen have again killed two people at Chikaji village in Igabi Local Government Area of Kaduna State. The bandits also abducted at least 18 people, among them four nursing mothers and their babies. The killings took place at Chikaji village, while the abduction occurred on Wednesday at Mando in Birnin… January 15, 2021 In "Metro & Crime"