 Muritala Ayinla As the world continues to grapple over the negative impact of the COVID-19 pandemic, which has altered lifestyles globally, Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu of Lagos State is set to embark on development of strategies towards ensuring safety of estimated 22 million Lagosians.
The governor, had on several occasions, remarked that the pandemic had brought about a new normal saying that the global outbreak of COVID-19 has changed the way Lagosians live, work and interact socially following the introduction of new protocols introduced to ensure safe and general wellbeing as a people.
But speaking on Governor Sanwo-Olu’s latest plan on the development of strategies to guarantee residents’ safety and healthy well-being, the Director-General, Lagos State Safety Commission, Mr Lanre Mojola, who disclosed this, said that the governor, will also on Wednesday, April 28 host the World Day for Safety and Health at Work.
According to him, the COVID-19 pandemic has led governments, employers, workers and the general population to face unprecedented challenges in relation to the virus.
The safety boss said the governor will lead the discussants on the theme of the World Day for Safety  and Health at Work titled: “Anticipate, prepare and respond to crises – Invest Now in Resilient Occupational Safety and Health Systems.”
He said that the governor in conjunction with other safety experts, would focus on strategies to strengthen National Occupational Safety and Health (OSH) systems to build resilience, in line with this year’s World Day for Safety and Health in order to face the crises now and in the future.  Muritala Ayinla After months of partial closure to prevent the spread of the COVID-19 pandemic, Lagos State Governor Mr Babajide Sanwoolu has approved the full resumption of operations of both food markets and non food markets. With this, traders in Lagos markets are now free to open and operate… October 27, 2020 In "Metro & Crime" Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu of Lagos State and his Plateau State counterpart, Simon Lalong, have tested negative for coronavirus. After coming out of isolation, Sanwo-Olu warned Lagosians to be extracareful and do everything possible to avoid having COVID-19 experience.   The governor said it would be wrong for the people to… December 25, 2020 In "News" TEMITOPE OGUNBANKE writes on the one-year anniversary of the Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu-led administration in Lagos State On May 29, 2019, there were exchanges of batons as well as continuity in some states as 29 governors took oath of office. Among the new governors who took oath of office last year… June 19, 2020 In "Politics"