The Director General of the World Trade Organisation (WTO), Dr. Ngozi Okonjo- Iweala, has described access to COVID-19 vaccine as the biggest economic stimulus for developing countries. She stated this during the final session of the 2021 International Monetary Fund (IMF) and World Bank Spring Meetings, on Friday. Although over 690 million doses of COVID-19 vaccines have been administered globally, Africa has received less than two per cent of total administered doses, according to the the World Health Organisation (WHO). Okonjo-Iweala said the lack of adequate vaccine has both economic and health impacts for developing countries, adding that the nations have suffered negative impact of the coronavirus pandemic in different ways. “Before we talk of economic impact, we have to look at the health impact because the biggest thing for economic recovery for developing countries is getting the vaccines they need in order to deal with the pandemic,” she said. “I often say the biggest economic stimulus for developing countries will be access to these vaccines, so that’s the first. “Developing countries have been hit in so many ways. Travel and tourism for those countries that depend on this has collapsed and even those well integrated into global value chain have suffered from some of the measures on factories, borders, and so on. So there has been a lot of impact on developing countries.” The WTO D-G said the success recorded in reducing poverty in the past 36 years has been affect ted by the onset of the virus. “For the first time it is climbing back and the World Bank projects that 150 million people could fall back into poverty,” she said.  ...clamours for benefits Following the appointment of Dr. Ngozi Okonjo-Iweala as the Director-General of the World Trade Organisation (WTO) on Monday, members of the organised private sector (OPS) in Nigeria have called for reforms in the global trade policy that will be more beneficial for developing countries to achieve sustainable… February 18, 2021 In "Business" Figeria’s former Finance Minister, Dr. Ngozi Okonjo- Iweala, yesterday resumed duty as the first woman and African to be appointed as director-general of the World Trade Organisation (WTO).   Her resumption coincided with the annual meeting of the WTO's General Council. Delegates from its 164 member states joined virtually and… March 2, 2021 In "News" Lawrence Olaoye and Abdulwahab Isa Abuja     Newly appointed Director-General of World Trade Organisation (WTO), Dr. Ngozi Okonjo- Iweala, has disclosed that the world trade body is not comfortable with the multiple exchange rates regime in Nigeria. Okonjo-Iweala, who visited President Muhammadu Buhari in Abuja for the… March 16, 2021 In "News"