The Nigerian Army has assured of its capacity to win the ongoing counter-insurgency and other sovereignty-challenged wars, with sophisticated equipment, including armoured fighting vehicles, platforms and hardware. The Chief of Army Staff (COAS), Lt-Gen. Ibrahim Attahiru, gave the undertaking, yesterday, when members of the Senate Committee on Army, visited the Headquarters on oversight. While underscoring the important role of the National Assembly in achieving the objective, the COAS reiterated the resolve of the Force to discharge its mandate of defending the territorial integrity of the nation at all costs. “To curb and finally defeat these threats, the Nigerian army requires equipment, weapons, armoured fighting vehicles, platforms, and various combat enablers,” he said. “I urge you to, as a matter of urgency, consider these critical needs as you legislate and appropriate funds. “I will be counting on your support, so that we can efficiently perform our constitutional roles and defeat all our threats”, the Army chief was quoted as saying.  ...says logistics constraints receiving attention   The Chief of Army Staff (COAS), Lt- Gen. Ibrahim Attahiru, has said that the ongoing counterinsurgency operation in the North East was being hampered by improvised explosive devices (IEDs) planted by suspected terrorist elements waging a blood-letting campaign against the nation.   This was… March 30, 2021 In "News" Brig. Gen. Saidu Aliyu Tijani (rtd) is a former Director of Operations, Defence Intelligence Agency (DIA) and one-time Commander of Intelligence Unit 82 Division and 3 Armoured Division of the Nigerian Army. In this interview with PHILIP NYAM, he speaks on the insecurity in the country, the efforts of the… January 3, 2021 In "Interview" Nigeria’s military has taken delivery of VT-4 main battle tanks, SH-5 self-propelled howitzers and other equipment from China in an effort to strengthen its land forces in the battle against Boko Haram militants. The equipment was acquired from China’s Norinco after being ordered last year under an apparent $152… March 25, 2021 In "News"