 Johnchuks Onuanyim, Abuja For asking President Muhammadu Buhari to resign or be impeached by the National Assembly, a chieftain of the All Progressives Congress (APC) and former Deputy National Publicity Secretary of the party, Yekini Nabena, has espoused that the Spiritual Director of Adoration Ministry, Rev Fr. Ejike Mbaka is not a true man of God.
Nabena, who issued a statement Friday in Abuja, condemning Mbaka’s position on Buhari’s government, said real men of God pray for stability of the nation.
He cited such to include the General Overseer of the RCCG, Pastor Enoch Adeboye, General Overseer of the Deeper Life Bible Ministry, Pastor WF Kumuyi and some others.
Nabeba, however, threatened to expose Father Mbaka to the Pope and headquarters of the Roman Catholic Church if he (Mbaka) continued to cause disaffection for the government of President Buhari.
Fr. Mbaka had called on the National Assembly to impeach President Muhammadu Buhari if he fails to resign over increased insecurity in the country.
Mbaka made the call during a recent church service where he lamented the way the country was being run.  Breaking from a long silence over his State of the Nation comments, fiery Catholic Priest and Spiritual Director, Adoration Ministries, Enugu, Nigeria (AMEN), Rev (Fr.) Ejike Mbaka, has called on President Muhammadu Buhari to act fast and save his government from going into extinction. Mbaka, a supporter of President Buhari,… January 3, 2021 In "News" ...urges Igbo youths to support Kalu's presidential ambitious   The Presidential ambition of the Chief Whip of the 9th Assembly, Senator Orji Uzo Kalu, has received impetus following his proclamation as the 'Light if Nigeria' by non other than the Spiritual Director of Adoration Ministry, Enugu, Nigeria, Rev. Fr. Ejike… September 20, 2020 In "Faith" Fiery Prophet and Spiritual Head of INRI Evangelical Church, Primate Elijah Babatunde Ayodele, in this interview with TAI ANYANWU takes a look at the state of the nation against the background of his earlier prophecies. He also wants the Spiritual Director of Adoration Ministries, Emene, Enugu State, Fr Ejike… April 11, 2021 In "Faith"