…says mode of recruitment into Police worrisome Governor Oluwarotimi Akeredolu of Ondo State has reiterated that the current security architecture cannot guarantee effective policing and address the array of security challenges confronting the country. According to Akeredolu, having a single command in Abuja to oversee the 36 states of the federation and the Federal Capital Territory cannot ensure effective tackling of the issues affecting policing in Nigeria. The governor spoke during a virtual panel discussion on the #EndSars protest that occurred last year. The panel discussion, which was hosted by the University of Notre Dame, is part of the Kellogg Institute for International Studies lecture series. Akeredolu also faulted the recruitment and employment process of the officers of the Nigerian Police, saying reports of payments for recruitment into the Police Force are very worrisome. Speaking on “Constitution and the Rule of Law prescribe the working mechanism of the State Security Outfit vis-a vis the rights of the individuals”, Akeredolu explained that the Nigerian Constitution guarantees the rule of law and fundamental human rights. He, however, said such rights can be suspended or abridged during social or political upheavals, adding that the state has an obligation to maintain law and order in a period of pervasive crisis or violence. Pointing out that there is no absolute right, the Governor re-emphasized that basic rights can be suspended for peace for the collective interest of the people. Akeredolu, who noted that there was no consistent policy conceived to address the security issues that have festered for a while, stressed that the #EndSars protest exposed one of the numerous crises facing the county. He condemned the way the protest ended with so much destruction, adding that the beginning was commendable before it was hijacked by hoodlums who were destructive elements. “#EndSARS protest was hijacked by hoodlums. It was not organised to loot and destroy. What happened in Lagos cannot be said to be #EndSARS. It was the handiwork of destructive elements. It is not something that anybody will encourage. When it started, it was commendable. The way it ended must be condemned because we allowed hoodlums to hijack it. “One thing is clear; the Nigerian Constitution as we have it today, in spite of the flaws, has guaranteed the rule of laws and fundamental human rights. Everybody, including the security agents, must respect this. “But the state has an obligation to maintain law and order. In the period of pervasive crisis, certain basic rights can be suspended for peace which is the collective interest of the people. It gives us clear understanding that no right is absolute,” he said. Others who spoke as panelists include; Former Inspector General of Police (IGP), Solomon Arase; Activist and Co-Convener, #Bringbackourgirls, Aisha Yesufu and Professor of Political Science, University of Notre Dame, Rev. Robert Dowd.  Adewale Momoh, Akure Following the security challenges that the country is battling with, Governor Oluwarotimi Akeredolu of Ondo State has made a case for modern equipment for the Nigerian Military to help in the fight against insurgents and other criminalities in the country. While also calling for multi-level policing… January 10, 2021 In "Metro & Crime" FELIX NWANERI writes on the clamour for state police due to the challenges of worsening state of insecurity across the country which the Nigeria Police Force, as presently constituted, has been unable to tackle One of the most contemporary challenges of present day Nigeria is the agitation for state police,… April 27, 2021 In "Politics" FELIX NWANERI writes on the clamour for state police due to the challenges of worsening state of insecurity across the country which the Nigeria Police Force, as presently constituted has been unable to rise up to   One of the most contemporary challenges of present day Nigeria is the agitation… October 26, 2020 In "Politics"