 The Police Command in Niger State says it killed three suspected kidnappers and recovered firearms at Fapo village, Lapai LGA of the state.
In a statement on Friday, in Minna, the state capital, Wasiu Abiodun, the command’s spokesperson, said the police received information on March 14 that gunmen kidnapped three persons at different locations and took them to an unknown destination.
Abiodun said the command acted on the information and mobilised operatives attached to Lapai Division and local vigilantes to go after the gunmen.
He said the suspected kidnappers were trailed to a place near Fapo village, where they were engaged in a fierce gun battle.
The spokesperson said three of the suspects were killed, two AK-47 rifles and one locally fabricated AK-47 rifle recovered during the encounter.
Abiodun said other members of the gang escaped with gunshot wounds and that three victims were rescued unhurt.
The police spokesperson said the command will continue the onslaught against hoodlums, and he asked residents to report anyone seen with bullet wounds or suspicious behaviour to the nearest police division.
The state has been battling security challenges, including banditry and kidnapping.
On February 14, gunmen ambushed a bus with 53 passengers of Niger State Transport Authority (NSTA), while returning from a wedding in Rijau LGA of the state.
Three days after, gunmen suspected to be bandits stormed Government Science College (GSC) Kagara, kidnapping several students, members of staff, and some members of their families.
They were later released by the gunmen.  The Nigerian Police Force (NPF), Sokoto State Command, has killed two suspected bandits during a crossfire with the criminals in the state. The state’s Commissioner of Police, CP Sani Ibrahim Ka’oje, while addressing newsmen at the police headquarters in Sokoto, said the State Criminal Investigation Department (SCID), upon receiving a… December 5, 2020 In "News" Kwara State Police Command have arrested two suspected kidnappers, three car thieves, while it also recovered two AK 47 rifles. The command has also arrested one Akinsola Babatunde, a.k.a Mr .White, for allegedly organising a naked party in Ilorin. State Commissioner of Police Muhammed Lawal-Bagega disclosed this on Wednesday in… January 20, 2021 In "Metro & Crime" Armed men on Wednesday night attacked former Minister of Sports and the immediate past Chairman of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in Plateau State, Hon. Damishi Sango. The state Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO), ASP Ubah Ogaba, yesterday confirmed the attack to New Telegraph in Jos. The gunmen invaded Sango's… April 2, 2021 In "Metro & Crime"