The Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC) yesterday declared that it secured financing agreement for the rehabilitation of the Port Harcourt Refinery by the African Export Import Bank (Afreximbank) as a fruit it reaped from its transparency and accountability. Though the rehabilitation is to gulp $1.5 billion, the financing deals secured from the Afreximbank, New Telegraph gathered, is $1 billion. Group Managing Director of the NNPC, Mallam Mele Kyari, said while playing host to the management team of the Nigeria Extractive Industries and Transparency Initiative (NEITI) led by its Executive Secretary, Dr. Orji Ogbonaya Orji, at the NNPC Towers, Abuja. He maintained that the corporation has begun to reap more benefit of its management’s commitment to transparency and accountability with bountiful opportunities of private sector financing for its projects. The publication of the Corporation’s Audited Financial Statements has significantly improved investors’ confidence in the corporation and was instrumental to the speedy facilitation of the financing agreement for the rehabilitation of the Port Harcourt Refinery by the African Export Import Bank (Afreximbank). He said: “Since we opted to disclose our financial statements, the speed with which we close financial transactions has been monumental. We now close deals at a quarter of the time we used to do them and that is very critical.” Kyari restated his commitment to work with NEITI and urged the Executive Secretary and members of his management team to avail themselves of details of the Corporation’s operations, especially the monthly engagement with the Federation Accounts Allocation Committee (FAAC), on the NNPC website. Earlier, Orji had described NNPC as a key partner of the agency whose role in the industry stands “clearly on the orbit.”   •Nigerians suffer despite huge spending on unproductive refineries •Afreximbank approves $1bn loan for P’Harcourt refinery’s repair • Why Nigerians must support NNPC’s planned $1.5bn on PH refinery –Kyari   Nigerians are currently bracing up for an increase in the prices of Premium Motor Spirit (PMS) otherwise known as petrol. An… March 28, 2021 In "Business" Afreximbank backs financing deal The Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC) is in talks to raise about $1 billion in a prepayment with trading firms to refurbish its largest refining complex at Port Harcourt. The Port Harcourt complex consists of two plants with a combined capacity of 210,000 bpd. In 2019,… January 8, 2021 In "News" The approval of $1.5 billion by the Federal Executive Council (FEC) for the rehabilitation of the 210,000 barrels per day capacity Port Harcourt Refinery has generated various reactions. ADEOLA YUSUF, who takes another look at the issue, reports how trust deficit in the industry impacted the way many perceived the… March 30, 2021 In "Business"