17 power plants in disarray Minister of Power, Saleh Mamman, has apologised to consumers as Nigeria, again, was thrown into another nationwide power outages buoyed by sixteen thermal and hydroelectric plants that are now hit by serious problems. While eight of the plants have broken down, one hydro is shut; seven integrated plants suffer gas constraint and one other hydro has water management problems. The Minister of Power, Mamman, who confirmed this in a statement to New Telegraph yesterday, maintained that he was “not unaware of the current power outages/shortages bedeviling many parts of the country.” The problem, Mamman said in a statement by Aaron Artimas, his media aide “is caused by the breakdown of some National Integrated Power Plants supplying electricity to the national grid. “The plants are namely, Sapele, Afam, Olorunsogo, Omotosho, Ibom, Egbin, Alaoji and Ihovbor. The Jebba Power Plant was shut down for annual maintenance. “Seven other integrated Power plants, namely Geregu, Sapele, Omotosho, Gbarain, Omuku, Paras and Alaoji are experiencing gas constraints while the Shiroro plant has water management problems.” This unfortunate development, the statement read further, “has drastically affected power generation, thus effectively minimizing the national grid. “In view of this, the Hon Minister of Power, Engr Sale Mamman, regrets this unfortunate situation and offers his sincere apology to all affected Nigerians on the inconveniences the power shortages are causing. “He assures that the ministry, through the appropriate agencies, is working assiduously to rectify the technical problems affecting the plants as well as resolving the gas issues to the others. “Engr Sale Mamman further assures that the national grid will be restored to its previous historic distribution peak of about 5,600MW of electricity achieved early this year, so as to relieve Nigerians of the current harsh climatic conditions and restore full economic activities.”   SURGE The number of idle power generation plants in Nigeria rises to 11 in 24 hours   The multi-million dollar Afam IV&V and Sapele I plants have been shut as gas supply shortage has, again, rocked the Nigeria’s power sector, surging the number of idle generation plants.   The Nigerian… February 23, 2021 In "Business" HISTORY The transmission has a history of collapse anytime power generation reaches a peak   The power industry at the weekend was rattled over possible collapse in the national grid as electricity generation in the country rose by 979.2 megawatts to 4,312.1 megawatt on Sunday.   This came as 16… October 6, 2020 In "Business" In four days’ time, Nigerians are once again expected to dip into their fastdwindling financial resources and come up with more money to pay for electricity – which for many is still a luxury since it’s hardly ever available. Minister of Power, Sale Mamman, who broke the news recently, said… June 27, 2020 In "Perspective"