T he Chairman of Nigerian Breweries Plc, Chief Kolawole Jamodu has pledged his continued support for the development of the private university in its quest to attain greatness as a world-class institution.  He made the pledge during the conferment of Honorary Doctorate Degree (Honoris Causa) of Doctor of Science (DSC) by the authorities of the Bells University of Technology, Ota in Ogun State.  The honour was bestowed on him in recognition of his immense contribution to the institution, the business ecosystem and national development during the 12th convocation of the institution.  While conferring the honour on him, the Vice-Chancellor of the university, Prof. Jeremiah Ojediran stated that the choice of Chief Jamodu as one of the awardees was in recognition of his exceptional contribution to the development of the university and economic governance of the country.  He said: “Chief Kola Jamodu, no doubt, is a corporate board guru per excellence by every standard moving from the position of employee into several executive roles and becoming the chairman of several blue-chip companies covering different sectors of the economy. “His role in the phenomenal growth of the Bells University of Technology till date remains evergreen. Given what he has contributed to the institution, the corporate community and Nigerian economy at large, he certainly deserves to be specially recognised, which informed decision to have chosen to honour him with this award.” While expressing gratitude to the university for the honour bestowed on him, Jamodu noted that the recognition would further spur him to do more to help the economy to thrive and national development. He added: “I am very proud to be associated with this great institution.  As immediate past Pro-Chancellor and Chairman of Council, I appreciate the opportunity to serve in various capacities in the university. I sincerely thank the Governing Council and the university Senate for adding value to my contribution through the conferment of this honorary degree. “I sincerely appreciate  The Bells University of Technology for this award. I believe that the only way to show appreciation is to continue to contribute my quota to the development of the university, especially in its quest to attain greatness as a world-class university. I pledge, as an alumnus, to continue to support the university and of course, impact lives in the best way I can,  as service to humanity.”  Meanwhile, the Managing Director, Nigerian Breweries Plc, Jordi Borrut-Bel on behalf of the Board, management and the entire staff of the company congratulated Chief Jamodu on the well-deserved honour. “We are all very proud of our Chairman and wish you more great accomplishments in future,” he added.  Billionaire Entrepreneur and malaria eradication champion in Africa, Prince Ned Nwoko, will receive the Media and Innovation award from the prestigious Delta State University, Abraka, Delta State, Nigeria, on September 26. This was made known in a notification letter signed by the University’s Vice Chancellor, Prof Andy Egwunyenga, during the… September 19, 2020 In "Arts & Entertainments" ...as Acting VC gets tenure extension   The management of the Adekunle Ajasin University, Akungba-Akoko (AAUA), Ondo State, has pledged its readiness to continue to support the aspirations of all staff cooperative societies in the institution towards attaining their stated objectives.   The Acting Vice-Chancellor, Prof. Olugbenga Ige made the… January 26, 2021 In "Education" Of late, some wealthy Nigerians have come to realise that giving from the little or much that they have is the greatest legacy they can bequeath to humanity. While most of them are realising this at the peak of their life, the same cannot be said of one of Nigeria’s… February 26, 2021 In "News"