…meet excites Mike Edwards After hosting a successful third MoC Grand Prix, athletes and officials who took part in the championship have hailed the sponsor, Making of Champions track club for staging a world class event.  The meet which took place last week saw some great performance from the athletes with some picking Tokyo 2020 Olym-pic Games ticket with some securing a berth in the 2021 World Youths Championship scheduled for Kenya.  The star attraction of the meet, runner up of the 2019 Big Brother Naija, Mike Edward, said it was his first time participating in the Grand Prix and didn’t believe it would turn out the way it did.  Edward who won the men’s High jump said the environment was very good for the games as he praised the organiser. “This is my first event since I entered the Big Brother house, and I am happy I made it here,” he said.  “When I saw all what was put in place, I was amazed and I am already looking forward to future championships here. “I checked the track and the field at Yabatech Sports Complex, everything were amazing.  Kudos to the organisers.” Newly adopted Edo State athlete, Orukpe Eraiyokan, who flew into the country from his base in UK said he wished there can be more organisations like MoC.  …as entries top 500 from across Nigeria, Africa   With just a few weeks left until the 3rd MoC Grand Prix scheduled for April 2 and 3 in Lagos, the event is beginning to take an international dimension, as over 500 athletes from across Africa have registered for the event,… March 7, 2021 In "Sports" Having endured a difficult 2020 as a result of the novel COVID-19 pandemic, athletes in Nigeria now have something to smile about as the Third edition of the Making of Champions Grand Prix, the largest annual Athletics Competition in Nigeria aside the National Trials, is now set to hold between… February 2, 2021 In "Sports" Late Ajibola Adeoye remained the country’s best performer at the Paralympics Games after his achievement at the Barcelona ‘92 Games, a feat he repeated four years later in Atlanta. Athletics, a sport that forms a huge part of Nigerian sportsmen and women’s DNA, provided its very first medals at the… March 6, 2021 In "Sports"