 Emmanuel Onani, Abuja Worried by the growing insecurity in the South East and South South geo-political zones, the Acting Inspector General of Police (IGP), Mr. Usman Baba, Friday, held a strategic meeting with respective zonal Assistant Inspectors General of Police, as well as Commissioners of Police (CPs).
The meeting, which held at the Force Headquarters in Abuja, is the first major engagement of the the police chief, since his assumption of office on Thursday.
New Telegraph reports that suspected gunmen had carried out coordinated attacks on the Nigeria Correctional Service (NCoS) Centre and the state’s Police Command Headquarters – all in Owerri, the Imo State capital – Monday.
A total of 1, 844 inmates were freed during the attack on the Owerri correctional centre, according to authorities.
A number have, however, either been recaptured, or returned voluntarily.
“We have called this meeting to discuss issues affecting us in the South-east and South-south geo-political zones.
“We have a very critical situation in the two zones which needs immediate attention, rejigging our  strategy to ensure that it is contained,” Baba said.
He hinted that, all the zonal AIGs and the Deputy Inspectors General (DIGs) overseeing them, “will go back to implement our resolutions to ensure that there is a change”.  ...Mba breaks record as 3 times Force's spokesperson The Acting Inspector- General of Police (IGP), Usman Baba, says there are critical security situation in the South-East and South-South geopolitical zones of the country. This is even as announced new appointments, with the Force’s spokesperson, CP Frank Mba retained by him.… April 10, 2021 In "News" ...as FHQ fingers lPOB/ESN ...says gunmen used GPMGs, SMGs, AK49, other sophisticated weapons ...attempt to loot armoury foiled   As part of measures to prevent further attacks on security formations in Imo State, the Inspector General of Police (IGP), Mr. Mohammed Adamu, has ordered the deployment of additional units of… April 6, 2021 In "News" President Muhammadu Buhari on Tuesday sprung a surprise on the nation when he removed a former Inspector General of Police, Mohammed Adamu, from his seat. In his place, the president, who was represented by the Minister of Police Affairs, Maigari Dingyadi, announced a Deputy Inspector- General of Police (DIG) Usman… April 9, 2021 In "Editorial"