Nigerian British born actress, Wunmi Mosaku continues to soar higher in her acting career in the United Kingdom and Hollywood. At the just concluded 74th British Academy Film Awards, also known as the BAFTA awards, which held on 10 and 11 April 2021 at the Royal Albert Hall in London Mosaku was one of the actresses nominated in the leading actress category for her role in the movie ‘His House’.  Though she did not win this time but it was another nice outing for the actress as her work continues to put her in the news.  On her social media handle, Mosaku stated that it’s such an honour to be nominated alongside such incredible inspirational women at BAFTA “I am brimming with gratitude and awe,” she said. Nigerian-born actress Wunmi Mosaku has had some major roles recently: since her breakthrough, BAFTA-winning performance in Damilola,  Our Loved Boy, she’s starred as Beryl in the Oscar-winning box office hit Fantastic Beasts and Where To Find Them, among others.  Nigerian-born British actress Wunmi Mosaku has joined the list of may Nigerians doing great in Hollywood in the USA. She is currently on Showmax in HBO’s brand-new horror drama Lovecraft Country now talk of the town. Based on the 2017 World Fantasy Award-nominated cult novel by Matt Ruff, Lovecraft Country… November 15, 2020 In "Body & Soul" Award-winning Nollywood actress and filmmaker, Judith Audu-Foght has been appointed as the Secretary of the Lagos State Zonal Chapter of the Directors’ Guild of Nigeria. In a statement announcing her appointment, the National President of the Directors Guild of Nigeria (DGN), Mr. Victor Okhai, said that it was in furtherance… April 16, 2021 In "Arts & Entertainments" Omobolanle Onifade Boluwatife is an actress and a realtor. She is the producer of the award winning movie, ‘The Wizard’. Boluwatife is currently a regular face on the screen in the series ‘Elenini’. Born and raised in the ancient city of Abeokuta in Ogun State, she had her primary and… March 12, 2021 In "Arts & Entertainments"