  The French economy will expand by 5% in 2021, Economy Minister Bruno Le Maire said in a newspaper interview, as a third lockdown to tackle the coronavirus pandemic has prompted a downward revision in the previous government forecast for 6% growth.
The new forecast was prudent, Le Maire said in comments published on Sunday in Le Journal Du Dimanche (JDD), reports Reuters.
“Our fundamentals are sound; we will be able to bounce back,” Le Maire said.
French schools and non-essential stores such as clothing chains will now be shut for four weeks, after COVID-19 cases surged in recent weeks, edging up the number of patients in intensive care units.
Bars and restaurants have already been closed for months, while tourist travel is at a standstill, although unlike when France entered its first national lockdown a year ago, construction work and manufacturing are among business areas still ticking over.
Like many countries in Europe, France has ploughed billions of euros into propping up struggling companies with state-backed loans, help with rents and partial unemployment schemes.
The latest restrictions will force some 150,000 businesses to temporarily close, and aid measures in April will cost 11 billion euros, the finance ministry has said.
Le Maire has repeatedly called for the European Union to accelerate the ratification and implementation of its 750 billion-euro economic stimulus plan.
He told the JDD that France was now unlikely to get the 5 billion euro disbursement from that scheme in July as planned, due to delays.
France has its own 100 billion-euro economic reboot programme, and plans to spend roughly half of that budget by the end of the year, Le Maire said.  The French government aims to guarantee 3 billion euros ($3.6 billion) in quasi-equity long-term loans to bolster the balance sheets of struggling small- and mid-sized firms, Finance Minister Bruno Le Maire said in a newspaper interview. French firms' debt burdens were at record levels even before the coronavirus outbreak… August 25, 2020 In "Business" The World Bank has revised downwards Nigeria’s 2021 growth forecast to 1.1 per cent from the 1.7 per cent it projected for the country in June last year. The bank, which made the forecast in its semiannual Global Economic Prospects report released yesterday, said it cut Nigeria’s growth forecast for… January 6, 2021 In "Business" More economic hardship appear on the way for Nigeria and other oil producers as the International Energy Agency IEA yesterday slashed its 2021 global oil demand forecast, citing soaring Covid- 19 cases and renewed lockdown measures that would further limit mobility. Nigeria, Africa’s biggest crude oil exporter, depends majorly on… January 20, 2021 In "News"