 Muhammad Kabir, Kano Security agents on Thursday foiled an attempted jail break by inmates of Kurmawa prison located within the Emir’s Palace in Kano.
The spokesperson of the Nigerian Correctional Service in Kano, Musbahu Lawal, told reporters that the attempt was masterminded by some condemned prisoners who caused pandemonium in the prison.
Lawal said a dispute had ensued when prison officials tried to retrieve illicit items, including phones, from the condemned criminals.
The pandemonium led to gunshots with frightened residents of the neighbourhood running indoors as they prepared to break their Ramadan fast.
“We have put down the rebellion through the concerted efforts of the prison officials, normalcy has been restored as all inmates are back in their confinement,” the spokesperson said to journalists.
The official debunked speculations that the crisis was over shortage or poor quality food supplied to the inmates by a businessman, Abdul-Samad Rabiu.  On October 19, 2020, thugs, working under the guise of the hitherto peaceful #EndSARS protests, launched coordinated attacks on two custodial centres of the Nigerian Correctional Service (NCoS), formerly the Nigerian Prison Service. The protests, originally, were to demand an end to harassment, extortion, illegal arrest/ detention, brutality and extrajudicial… October 30, 2020 In "Editorial" Houses, shops, fuel station torched in Lagos ethnic clash   Govt kicks as residents steal palliatives from warehouse   Sanwo-Olu frustrated over failure to reach Buhari   Violent protests continued yesterday in Lagos, the Centre of Excellence as demonstrators attacked public facilities. Thugs attacked Ikoyi Correctional Centre.   But an… October 23, 2020 In "Metro & Crime" ...1,161 Oko, 530 Benin prisoners still at large   Indications emerged over the weekend that, six months after at least 1, 826 inmates escaped from the Benin and Oko Medium Security Custodial Centres in Edo State, only 135 of them have been recaptured by security operatives in different parts of… April 12, 2021 In "News"