 Nigerian music sensation and songwriter, Michael Nzebechukwu Anyaegbu, popularly called ‘Anyas’, has portrayed himself as king of the east,  a symbolic posture, as a tool of protest for the Nigerian nouth.
“I joined the music industry in 2014, I realized that despite all the money I was making and even with the comfort I was getting, I wasn’t happy, or let me say, I wasn’t fulfilled.
“I felt empty inside. I felt something inside of me needed my attention. With lots that has been happening from my side of origin which happens to be a business oriented background, we actually deserve more recognition outside business,” he said.
The young Afrobeat star, who is also the owner of Hot Sound Records, has not gone unnoticed with back to back hit tracks sending tantalizing music shivers to the spine of the Nigerian music community and as an artiste who considers his music as a kind of inspiration for others has not been cowed by the need to be silent in the face of prevailing circumstances berating the Nigerian youths.
Rather he has taken a symbolic posture through his music to call for a change in the fortune of the Nigerian youths as demonstrated in his latest track ‘Show Dem’.
Music is one of the most veritable tools young people utilize to communicate to one another. And for the philospher who said “music is the food for the soul”; to the poet, it is a meeting place for the heart, art, thoughts and people.
And so Anyas’s song is a meeting place of art which express the thoughts of his heart to his peers.
“I will keep my voice loud and keep my fans proud of how much I am of an impact to my society,” he said.  Fast rising Nigerian singer and song writer, King Steve, who is making waves in far away Russia has disclosed that the secret of his success is creativity and hard work.     Among the hit songs of the Ekiti State-born artiste are Konto and Ifeoma, among other thrilling tracks. … June 23, 2020 In "News" Samuel Idabor is the Chairman/CEO of a top entertainment outfit, Starhill Empire International. In this interview with TONY OKUYEME, Idabor discusses a wide range of issues about Nigerian entertainment industry What is the vision behind this? The vision is driven by music, good qualitative music. For me, music is life… January 29, 2021 In "Arts & Entertainments" Patrick Damian Wan is the new kid on the block in the Nigerian entertainment scene.   The Political Science graduate from University of Ibadan who hails from Abia State, disclosed that his love for music took root while he was in the university and his exploits on campus earned him… April 18, 2021 In "Body & Soul"