 Steve Uzoechi, Owerri No fewer than three persons have been reported dead following the attack by unknown gunmen on the country home residence of Governor Hope Uzodinma of Imo State.
Buildings in the governor’s premises were set ablaze by the gunmen and every vehicle within the compound burnt.
The gatehouse, the hall and his living home were all affected and suffered varying degrees of arson.
Our correspondent learnt that after the attack, locals mobilized and attempted to put out the raging fire.
The Imo State Commissioner for Information, Declan Emelumba confirmed the report saying: “Yes, the governor’s home was attacked by unknown assailants but we are analyzing the situation. They burnt the big hall, burnt every vehicle in the premises and killed one Civil Defence security guard.”
A video of the incident obtained by our correspondent shows that every building in the premises was torched but were not burnt to the ground.
On why the governor’s home was sparingly guarded, a local who spoke to our correspondent on the ground of anonymity said, “how can the governor’s house not be guarded, there were soldiers, there were policemen and there were Civil Defence operatives but all of them fled when the gunmen stormed the house. It is an unfortunate incident and the entire community is disturbed, you could feel the air of solemnity pervading our community.”
As at the time of this report, the Police authorities were yet to comment on the incident.  Pandemonium, yesterday, enveloped Owerri, the Imo State capital, following the attack on the state’s Police headquarters and the National Correctional Services (NCS), Owerri, with about 1,844 inmates on the run by yetto- be identified gunmen.   New Telegraph gathered that the attack, which was well coordinated, commenced between 1:30 a.m.… April 6, 2021 In "News" ...as Uzodinma convenes emergency security meeting Steve Uzoechi, Owerri Following the attack and burning of sections of the Imo State Police Headquarter and the Owerri Correctional Services by yet-to-be-identified gunmen, Governor Hope Uzodinma has convened an emergency security meeting. The governor, Monday morning cut short his Easter trip to his… April 5, 2021 In "Metro & Crime" Armed men yesterday burnt Ehime Mbano Local Government Area Divisional Police Headquarters in Imo State. The attack came about 24 hours after gunmen razed the Imo State Police Headquarters, Owerri.   The gunmen struck a few hours after the Vice President, Yemi Osinbajo, outgoing Inspector General of Police… April 7, 2021 In "Metro & Crime"