A basketball developmental clinic ended in Gombe, Gombe State at the weekend.  The two-day talent hunt which was co-sponsored by the Central Bank of Nigeria was under the auspices of Adamu Yola Foundation in conjunction with the Jordan Nwora Foundation with all-round development of youths in sports and academic plus social development as the main objectives.  The National Basketball Team Manager, Musa Adamu, who is also the host, described the event as a dream come true, more so when it is a form of giving back to society and offering the youngsters good education and better life.  Adamu hinted that the clinic had come to stay as an annual event with a view to sustaining and enhancing the coaching skills of the local officials.   In his remarks at the event, Alex Nwora of Jordan Nwora Foundation noted that clinics of this nature serve as a good avenue for coaches and players to share knowledge while noting that “the biggest thing at moment is about young boys and girls among whom the next generation of basketball stars would emerge”.   Asociate Head Coach of Nigeria’s men’s basketball team, Alex Nwora arrived the country Thursday morning ahead of the Jordan Nwora Foundation Elite Camps billed to hold in four Nigeria cities and three other countries. Coach Nwora said he was delighted with the initiative of the camps which aimed at providing… March 19, 2021 In "Sports" Assistant coach of Nigeria's senior basketball team, D'Tigers, Alex Nwora believes the sucess of his team in international competitions created opportunities for African players to make wave in the NBA. The coach stated that football is regarded as the biggest sport in Nigeria but D'Tigers have also projected the country's… April 9, 2021 In "Sports" Assistant coach of the national women basketball team D’Tigress, Adewunmi Aderemi, has called on government at all levels to give more attention to sports development, improve dilapidated infrastructures and saddle vibrant youths to handle sports related matters and offices in the country.   Aderemi gave the charge at the closing… March 16, 2021 In "Sports"