There appears to be a fresh crisis among farmers and other stakeholders over the negative economic impact of the suspension of the Anchor Borrowers Loans scheme allegedly mismanaged by the Nigeria Incentive Based Risk Sharing System for Agricultural Lending (NIRSAL).  The Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) had recently suspended all loans disbursed by NIRSAL, following widespread allegations of fraud and corruption by its officials.  The CBN’s suspension of further disbursement of loans by NIRSAL to farmers was contained in a correspondence of March 10, following the February 24 meeting where the decision to suspend further loan disbursements was reached.  The memo said the decision would only be reversed after all outstanding loans disbursed to farmers through NIRSAL were paid.  Recall also that over 800,000 applicants have complained that they were not able to access the N150 billion Targeted Credit Facility (TCF) stimulus package announced by the CBN in March 2020 to help reduce the impact of the coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic on the economy and businesses and to support households and micro, small and medium enterprises (MSMEs) that have been affected by the pandemic.  NIRSAL was mandated to disburse the TCF funds, in which, again, it failed to handle effectively.  However, President of the All-Farmer Association of Nigeria (AFAN), Kabiru Ibrahim, in his reaction to the suspension, urged the CBN to do the needful by ensuring that all those involved in the shady act were punished.  He said: “We urge the CBN to do due diligence in prequalifying farmers who participate in the programme because several cases of briefcase farmers who pose as real farmers abound. These collude with some NIRSAL officials to defraud the programme.”  As part of efforts by the Central Bank ot Nigeria (CBN) to secure agriculture investments from ruins, it established an independent organ–NIRSAL–to de–risk agriculture and facilitate agric business. ABDULWAHAB ISA examines efforts by the agency to secure farmers against losses Central bank’s interventions in agriculture sector and its value chain… March 11, 2021 In "Business" Bayelsa State has been awash with stories recently because of a N3 billion agricultural loan allegedly squandered by the prosperity government. John Idumange, a former general manager of Bayelsa State Radio Corporation, during the time of Henry Seriake Dickson, had accused the government of sharing the money among some senior… March 17, 2021 In "City Life" The Central Bank of Nigeria’s (CBN) intervention programmes have helped to cushion the devastating impact of COVID-19 crisis on the nation’s poultry industry, writes TONY CHUKWUNYEM Clearly, this may not be the best of times for the Nigerian poultry industry. Like its counterparts in most parts of the world, disruptions… December 23, 2020 In "Business"