Researchers in Britain said ‘prediabetes’ – where blood sugar levels are high but not yet tipped over into full-blown diabetes – might pose a threat to brain health.  These are the results of a new study published online in the journal ‘Diabetes, Obesity and Metabolism’. The study lead author Victoria Garfield said,  “As an observational study, it cannot prove higher blood sugar levels cause worsening brain health; however, we believe there is a potential connection that needs to be investigated further.”  Garfield is at the Institute of Cardiovascular Science and MRC Unit for Lifelong Health and Ageing, at University College London. Garfield’s team analysed U.K. Biobank data on a halfmillion people, average age 58.  Compared to those with normal blood sugar (‘glucose’) levels, people with prediabetes had a 42 per cent higher risk of mental decline over an average of four years, and were 54 per cent more likely to develop vascular dementia – a common type of dementia caused by reduced blood flow to the brain – over an average of eight years.  Dementia is a collective term used to describe various symptoms of cognitive decline, such as forgetfulness. It is a symptom of several underlying diseases and brain disorders.  The associations between prediabetes and mental (‘cognitive’) decline/vascular dementia remained even after the researchers accounted for other potential risk factors, including age, smoking, weight, level of heart disease, and poverty, the ‘Medical Xpress’ reported.  According to an Endocrinologist at Lenox Hill Hospital in New York City, Dr. Minisha Sood, cognitive risk related to elevated glucose levels occurs across a spectrum.”  Researchers in the United States (U.S.) said the longer a person is overweight, the more damage it does to cardiovascular and metabolic health while increasing the fellow’s risk of metabolic dysfunction and diabetes. These are the findings of a new study, published in the journal ‘PLOS One’. A metabolic disorder… January 6, 2021 In "News" Most people, who may not want to be intoxicated, consume non-alcoholic drinks, especially the malt brands. They are good energy sources though, there are worries their sugar contents could significantly increase the risk of developing Type 2 diabetes. ISIOMA MADIKE, in this story, attempts to find out what the companies… February 23, 2019 In "Investigation" Eating more fruits, vegetables and whole grain foods could lower the risk of type 2 diabetes, researchers in the United States (US) and the United Kingdom (UK) have revealed. According to findings of two new studies, a healthier diet of whole grains, fruits and vegetables along with regular physical activity,… July 10, 2020 In "News"