Rilwan ‘Real One’ Oladosu, reigning World Boxing Federation (WBF) world super featherweight champion, has thanked the organisers of GOtv Boxing Night for the N1 million prize awarded to him at the event. Oladosu emerged the WBF world super featherweight champion when he defeated Emmanuel ‘Akufo Addo’ Quartey of Ghana via a ninth round knockout at the Mobolaji Johnson Indoor Sports Hall of Rowe Park, Yaba, Lagos, on Friday. His performance earned him the Mojisola Ogunsanya memorial trophy and N1 million cash for the best boxer of GOtv Boxing Night 22.  The new world champion lauded GOtv for the prize, noting that it is an honour for him to be recognised out of all the boxers at the event as the best on the night.  “I am grateful to GOtv for recognising me as the best fighter of the event and following it with the trophy and prize money. It is not an easy feat as I contested for a world title and my opponent gave me a tough time, but I was still deemed worthy to have won that award. It’s great to have won the award alongside the WBF title and I thank the sponsors for this honour,” he said.  Rilwan “Babyface” Babatunde, on Friday, emerged the best boxer at GOtv Boxing Night 21, which held at the Rowe Park Sports Centre in Lagos. The West African Boxing Union welterweight champion went home with the Mojisola Ogunsanya Memorial Trophy and the N1 million cash attached to the prize.   Baby… November 29, 2020 In "Sports" Flamboyant ring artist, Rilwan “Real One” Oladosu, sees his opportunity to fight for the World Boxing Federation (WBF) Intercontinental super featherweight title as proof of how far he has come as a boxer.   Oladosu will, on April 2nd, duel with Ghana’s Emmanuel “Afuko Addo” Quartey for the title at… March 22, 2021 In "Sports" Flamboyant ring artist, Rilwan “Real One” Oladosu, sees his opportunity to fight for the World Boxing Federation (WBF) Intercontinental super featherweight title as proof of how far he has come as a boxer.   Oladosu will, on April 2nd, duel with Ghana’s Emmanuel “Afuko Addo” Quartey for the title at… March 22, 2021 In "Sports"