KRC Genk are convinced that prolific target man, Paul Onuachu is worth more than €20 million, with the club expressing the intention of making the Nigerian the most expensive outgoing transfers in their history.  The Belgian side acquired the Nigerian finisher for only six million euros two years ago but are only ready to part with his services for a fee never before received. Genk are renowned as a club that acquires players on the cheap, helps them develop over time, and sells them for a significant profit.  The Pro League side repeated the trick time and again, with Manchester City’s Kevin De Bruyne (€8m), Leicester City’s Wilfred Ndidi (€17.6m), and Real Madrid’s Thibaut Courtois (€8.95m) among their most expensive departures. But the most considerable fee received by Racing for any of their players was when Sheffield United paid €23 million in 2019 to acquire the services of Norwegian midfielder Sander Berge.  But that outlay is about to be dwarfed by Onuachu, who has seen his stock risen massively over the past 12 months.  The ex-Midtjylland star has smashed in 33 goals for club and country, with his latest double in his side’s 3-2 defeat to Antwerp, the 29th league goal this term. Genk’s Sporting Director Dimitri De Condé admits the club will not stop the 26-yearold from leaving this summer, but it would be on their financial terms. “How much is he worth?”  De Conde told the RTBF. “I’m not giving a sum, 20 million euros? No, this is not an exaggerated figure, and yes, we have in mind to make the biggest transfer out of the history of the club.” Scottish giants Celtic and French side Olympique Lyon are among the top clubs reportedly interested in signing Onuachu in the summer. The FC Ebedei product has a contract with Racing Genk until the end of the 2023-2024 season.  …Onuachu steals limelight in Belgium He may be playing in the less-fancied Belgian Jupiter Liga, Nigeria’s Paul Onuachu is unarguably the hottest African striker in Europe at the moment and that he will prove again when his Genk side take on Kortrijk on Saturday (today). Onuachu scored a hat-trick as… January 9, 2021 In "Back Page Columnist" Belgian club KRC Genk have revealed the price tag of their prized striker Paul Onuachu with the outfit announcing that the forward can go for 15 million Euros. The striker has been one of the hottest prospects in Europe and French Ligue 1 club Lyon already among the front runners… February 12, 2021 In "Sports" As the crucial back-to-back Africa Cup of Nations qualifiers against Squirrels of Benin and Crocodiles of Lesotho draw near, events unfolding have further demonstrated the deficiency of the Super Eagles manager, Gernot Rohr. Shortly after Rohr released his list for the qualifying games, there were ‘ripples’ over the exclusion of… March 20, 2021 In "Sports"