 The Italian Football Federation (FIGC) has approved a rule that would ban clubs who sign up to breakaway competitions from competing in Serie A.
It follows the collapse of the proposed European Super League which involved Juventus, Inter Milan and AC Milan, reports the BBC.
The tournament sparked furious backlash but Juve, plus Barcelona and Real Madrid, are yet to abandon the project.
Clubs playing in leagues not recognised by FIFA or UEFA will now not be able to play in domestic tournaments in Italy.
The FIGC added a new clause to its rules underlining that clubs registering for national leagues must agree they will not join private, unauthorised competitions.
Under the European Super League proposals announced on April 18, clubs agreed to play in the new competition but wanted to continue to play in their domestic leagues.
The proposals were heavily criticised by fans, authorities, governments and players and eventually nine of the 12 clubs, including the Premier League’s ‘Big Six’ and both Milan clubs, pulled out.
“At the moment we have no news about who has stayed and who is out of the Super League,” said FIGC President Gabriele Gravina.
“If, by the deadline for applications to the national championships on June 21, someone joins up to other private leagues, they will not take part in our championship.”  Senior UEFA figures are furious that 11 major European clubs, including five from England, have signed up to a breakaway European Super League. BBC Sport was told last week of plans for some sort of confirmation about a European Super League. UEFA hoped to head off plans with a new-look… April 18, 2021 In "Sports" Senior UEFA figures are furious that 11 major European clubs, including five from England, have signed up to a breakaway European Super League. BBC Sport was told last week of plans for some sort of confirmation about a European Super League. UEFA hoped to head off plans with a new-look… April 19, 2021 In "Sports" Spain’s LaLiga have reacted to news that 12 clubs are seeking to break away and form their own Super League. Among the clubs involved are Real Madrid and Barcelona, with Real president Florentino Perez named the chairman of the new group. In an official statement this morning, LaLiga declared:… April 20, 2021 In "Sports"