 Pauline Onyibe, Yenagoa Bayelsa State Governor, Douye Diri, on Tuesday promised to sponsor  the state’s Under-18 female handball team’s foreign trip and also promised a handsome reward if they emerge victorious.
Receiving the team after emerging champions at a recent national tournament in Lagos, Diri charged them to brace up for the challenge ahead as they prepare to represent the country in the international championship.
He therefore announced a cash reward of N3.5 million for being shining ambassadors of the state.
He described the team’s triumph as a miracle because of the odds against it and commended their determination to come back home with the trophy.
His Chief Press Secretary,  Daniel Alabrah, quoted the governor as saying that the road to success was not always rosy as it takes sacrifice and hard work to overcome all obstacles.
Diri, who was full of praises for the girls, expressed appreciation on behalf of the government and people of the state for making the state proud.
Speaking earlier, head coach of the handball team,  Opuene Yekorogha, said they were proud to represent the state despite the initial hiccups of poor funding.
Yekorogha, who thanked Governor Diri for coming to the team’s aid financially, stressed that they were determined to do better with the backing of the state government.
He stated that the international championship taking place in Europe will be held in June this year.  Bayelsa State Governor, Senator Douye Diri, on Monday, received the state's Under-18 female handball team after emerging champions at a recent national tournament in Lagos.   Governor Diri, who addressed the team in Government House, Yenagoa, announced a cash reward of N3.5 million for being shining ambassadors of the state.… April 7, 2021 In "Sports" Bayelsa State Governor, Douye Diri, at the weekend said the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) carefully selected its candidates for the October 31 Central and West senatorial districts bye-election. Speaking in Yenagoa after his predecessor Seriake Dickson and the immediate past chairman of the party, Moses Cleopas, emerged  as candidates for Bayelsa… September 6, 2020 In "Metro & Crime" Bayelsa State Governor, Douye Diri, on Wednesday, received 10 expatriates that were rescued by security agencies in the state from the den of kidnappers.   The foreign sailors were kidnapped on November 25 from their vessel along the Pennington River in neighbouring Delta State and brought into Bayelsa.   The… December 23, 2020 In "Metro & Crime"