Cephas Iorhemen, Makurdi  Governor Samuel Ortom of Benue State Monday insulated himself from calls in some quarters for him to contest the 2023 presidential election. He said he is not nursing any presidential ambition, adding that for now he has two and half years to complete his mandate as governor and is committed to greater service of the state. The governor’s was reacting to a widely circulated statement credited to a group, “Project Ortomise Nigeria Ortomatically 2023″ which said the governor was “under pressure to contest for president in 2023”. The group’s National Coordinator, Hon. Prince Samuel Onuh had in the statement obtained by reporters said: “Governor Ortom is the only detribalised Nigerian with the political will to reunite all aggrieved ethnic nationalities and rescue the country from the grips of Boko Haram, bandits, insurgents, militants and other fundamentalists making lives difficult for the citizens.” The group promised to mobilize 10 million women, 10 million men and 10 million youths for a march in Abuja, Nigeria’s Federal Capital city, to pressurise the two term governor of Benue State to come to the “nation’s rescue”. But reacting swiftly on the matter, Governor Ortom said the issue is not on his table, stressing that what is before him now is delivering good governance to people of the state.  …you’re flying a kite, says Benue opposition Benue State Governor, Samuel Ortom, yesterday said he has no intention of defecting from the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) to the All Progressives Congress (APC). The governor was reacting to comments by the state Chairman of APC, Abba Yaro, during the defection of… August 6, 2020 In "News" Presidency: Gladiators test  political waters with posters   FELIX NWANERI writes on the emergence of campaign posters of some political gladiators, who are said to be interested in the 2023 presidential election but are yet to officially declare their respective ambitions   There is no doubt that the jostle for… December 21, 2020 In "Politics" KENNETH OFOMA writes on the zoning debate that has characterized the polity in Enugu State ahead of the 2023 governorship election   Ahead of the 2023 general election, the political environment in Enugu state in recent time has been awash with debates of zoning or power shift among the senatorial… August 11, 2020 In "Politics"