 The government “should be able” to begin easing England’s coronavirus lockdown in March, a senior minister has told Sky News.
Michael Gove said the public should not expect a sudden relaxation of the COVID-19 rules, with restrictions “progressively” relaxed instead.
And he warned of “very, very difficult weeks ahead” as the country battles to reduce the spread of coronavirus, which is being driven by a new, more transmissible variant.
As vaccines continue to be rolled out, the country is in a “race against time” against the variant, Mr Gove added.
Asked how long the lockdown could last, the Cabinet Office minister said ministers would “review the progress that we’ve made” on 15 February.
He added: “We hope that we will be able to progressively lift restrictions after that but what I can’t do is predict – nobody can predict – with accuracy exactly what we will be able to relax and when.
“What we do know is that the more effective our vaccination programme, the more people who are protected in that way, the easier it will be to lift these restrictions.”
Pressed again on a timeframe for easing restrictions, Mr Gove said: “We will keep these constantly under review but you are absolutely right, we can’t predict with certainty that we will be able to lift restrictions in the week commencing February 15-22.
“What we will be doing is everything that we can to make sure that as many people as possible are vaccinated, so that we can begin to progressively lift restrictions.
“I think it is right to say that as we enter March we should be able to lift some of these restrictions but not necessarily all.”
He was speaking after Boris Johnson introduced a third national lockdown in England, with people told to “stay at home” as they did during last March’s first shutdown.  Plans for fans to return to watch live sport events in England from October 1 will not go ahead, says Cabinet Office Minister, Michael Gove. The plans were placed under review earlier this month after a rise in coronavirus cases, with pilot events restricted to 1,000 people, reports the… September 22, 2020 In "Sports" Boris Johnson has announced a new national lockdown for England, with people instructed to "stay at home" as they did during March's first lockdown. The prime minister revealed the action in an eight-minute TV address on Monday night, after being told that COVID-19 cases are rising rapidly in every… January 4, 2021 In "Top Stories" Against the background of rising new coronavirus cases in Nigeria and in the western countries spiking fear of second wave of lockdown in the country, the President of the Guild of Medical Directors (GMD), Prof. Femi Dokun-Babalola has cautioned against embarking on another lockdown as a measure to curb COVID-… November 15, 2020 In "News"