 U.S. Capitol police officer Brian Sicknick has died of injuries suffered during a riot led by supporters of President Donald Trump, the force said in a statement late on Thursday.
Wednesday’s breach of the building was a stunning assault on American democracy at a time when Congress was certifying the victory of President-elect Joe Biden, reports Reuters.
“Officer Sicknick was responding to the riots…and was injured while physically engaging with protesters,” police said in a statement.
He succumbed on Thursday after being taken to hospital following his collapse upon returning to his divisional office, they added.
Metropolitan homicide officials will investigate the death of Sicknick, who joined the U.S. Capitol Police in 2008, along with the USCP and its federal partners, police said.
Trump condemned the violence, saying rioters had defiled the seat of American democracy and must be held accountable.
Among the four more killed were a woman demonstrator shot by authorities.  The woman fatally shot inside the U.S. Capitol Wednesday has been identified as Ashli Babbitt, a friend confirms to Fox News. Babbitt was a 14-year veteran who served four tours with the Air Force and resided in San Diego, according to media reports. Babbitt was a strong supporter of President Trump, her husband told WTTG-TV.… January 7, 2021 In "News" Acting Attorney General Jeffrey Rosen vowed that pro-Trump rioters who entered the U.S. Capitol would "face the full consequences of their actions under the law," and those consequences could include being charged under President Trump's executive order authorizing up to 10 years in prison for "injury of federal property." "Our criminal prosecutors have been… January 7, 2021 In "News" Leaders around the world condemned the storming of the U.S. Capitol by supporters of President Donald Trump on Wednesday, expressing shock at the chaos unfolding in a country they once relied upon for global leadership. “Disgraceful scenes in US Congress," tweeted Prime Minister Boris Johnson of Britain, a staunch ally of… January 7, 2021 In "Top Stories"