A veteran journalist, poet, sports administrator and former Vice-Chairman, Association of Nigerian Authors (ANA), Eddie Aderinokun, is dead. He died during a brief illness on Sunday at 80, a source close to the family told New Telegraph.  “With great sadness, but with submission to the will of God, we announce the passing on to glory of our beloved father, grandfather, husband, brother, Otunba Eddie Olayiwola Aderinokun on the 3rd of January 2021, following a brief illness. “Funeral arrangements will be announced by the family,” Eddie’s brother, Kayode Aderinokun, said in a statement.  Aderinokun worked for the Daily Express in the 1960s and later became editor of the revamped Express in 1970. He also wrote for the National Interest and was a sports enthusiast.  He served as the Nigerian volleyball association president in 1994. His works include Dark Days Are Here: A philosophical travelogue of Nigeria in verse, Ebony on Snow: A travel diary in verse and several others.  Engineer Habul Ahmed Gumel, Nigeria Olympic Committee President, has reacted to the demise of Otunba Eddie Aderinokun as he condoles his family for the great loss. Otunba Aderinokun was an astute sports administrator and a journalist per excellence. Otunba, a former President, Nigeria Volleyball Federation did his best for the… January 6, 2021 In "Sports" Former Governor of Abia State and Chief Whip of the Senate, Senator Orji Kalu, has expressed sadness over the passing of veteran journalist and sports administrator, Mr Bisi Lawrence, popularly known as Uncle Biz Law. Describing the deceased as a talented media practitioner and sports enthusiast, Kalu acknowledged the contributions… November 14, 2020 In "Sports" The National President of the Theatre Arts and Motion Pictures Practitioners Association of Nigeria (TAMPAN), Mr. Bolaji Amusan, on Wednesday expressed sadness over the death of veteran Nollywood actress, Folake Aremu, popularly known as ‘Orisabunmi’. Orisabunmi died late Tuesday night after a brief illness at the age of 61. Amusan,… January 8, 2021 In "Arts & Entertainments"