*Klopp: ‘I think the performance was good enough to win’
*Solskjær says Anfield stalemate ‘an opportunity missed’ Jürgen Klopp defended his misfiring champions after Liverpool failed to knock Manchester United off their Premier League perch.
The front three of Mohamed Salah, Roberto Firmino and Sadio Mané endured an off day as Klopp’s men could not break down United at Anfield. It was Liverpool’s third successive league match without a goal, reports The Guardian.
Indeed, United could have snatched victory had it not been for two fine saves by Alisson who denied Bruno Fernandes and Paul Pogba in the second half.
The stalemate left Liverpool with some work to do if they are to defend their title but, after dominating much of the ball with Thiago Alcântara particularly impressive, Klopp was happy with the performance, if not the finishing.
He said: “I saw my team playing tonight a really good team with a clear idea with super passes and great counter-pressing and great desire to score and we didn’t score.
“We will create chances and we will score. I think the performance was good enough to win it but to win a game you have to score goals and we didn’t do that, so that’s why we had that result. There is nothing fundamentally different, it is just the result is different.”
Since the 7-0 demolition of Crystal Palace last month, Liverpool have dropped points against West Brom, Newcastle and Southampton.
They now face a testing January with Burnley, Tottenham and West Ham next up in the league and a trip to Old Trafford in the fourth round of the FA Cup.
Klopp, though, remains unconcerned by Liverpool’s apparent drop‑off.
“There is no easy explanation [for their recent lack of goals],” the manager said. “You always miss chances. You have to keep going and try to ignore the talk around it. Everyone wants to see goals. You cannot force it.
“It’s football. These moments happen. You have moments where you can’t explain why you score from all angles. Against Crystal Palace everything ended up in the net. It’s a bit annoying in between these moments.
“I like the game. I saw a lot of really good individual perfomances and the team performance was good. Not the result we wanted, but the result we got.”
Despite coming into the match as the league leaders, United were happy to sit back for much of the contest and Ole Gunnar Solskjær left Anfield disappointed with his side’s display.
Speaking to Sky Sports, he said: “I think we grew in the game and towards the end it was there for us to win. We created two massive chances and it was two brilliant saves by the keeper.
“They are a good side and they have some injury problems but we didn’t pounce on that. We can play better than this, we can be more composed, we can have the ball more. We had to defend really often today. There are a couple of things for us to improve on.”
“It’s only a good result if we win the next game. It was an opportunity missed with the chances we had but then again we were playing a very good side. I’m disappointed but still a point is OK.
“We were stronger towards the end. We didn’t start at all in the first half. It’s not just the result we’re disappointed with, it’s some of the performance. I know these boys can play better.
The Liverpool captain, Jordan Henderson, pinpointed a “strange” decision from the referee Paul Tierney to blow his whistle early for half-time, when Mané was racing through on goal.
“We weren’t happy with that, as you can imagine. [It was] strange, very strange,” he said.
“I think he’s through on goal if he doesn’t blow. We were frustrated at half-time but still plenty of time for us to score the goal, but again lacked that quality in the last bit.
“I thought we did enough to win the game, especially first half [we had] a lot of the ball, creating chances, just couldn’t find the back of the net really but they had one or two chances as well to be fair to them.
“Overall I felt that we were the better team to win the game. [The final third] seems to be the problem at the minute, in the box just finding that little bit of luck to drop to someone and get a clean strike on it or it ricochets off someone and goes in. That can happen in football sometimes – you’ve just got to keep working hard.”
The United captain, Harry Maguire, said: “I thought they started the game better and then in the second half we came into it. We were a lot braver on the ball and we created the best few chances of the game.
“It was cagey but it was two good teams matching up and we found it difficult the first half to get a rhythm to the game, the press was high – we knew it was going to be high but the intensity … we didn’t get the rhythm with the ball.”  Jürgen Klopp claimed Liverpool were “disadvantaged” by VAR once again as his side overcame a controversial penalty award and a disallowed Mohamed Salah goal to beat Sheffield United 2-1 at Anfield. The Premier League champions moved level on points with Everton at the top of the table thanks to Roberto Firmino’s… October 25, 2020 In "Sports" History of sorts will be made this afternoon when for the first time since 2013 Manchester United will arrive Anfield to face North West rivals and champions, Liverpool sitting on top of the Premier League table – last season when they visited, they were 30 points behind their hosts.  … January 17, 2021 In "Sports" Liverpool manager Jurgen Klopp said his side's position in the table is "the last thing" he is thinking about after they drew at Newcastle to finish 2020 three points clear at the top of the Premier League. The Reds end the year where they started it but a second… December 31, 2020 In "Sports"