 Onyekachi Eze, Abuja The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) has alerted members of the public of fake employment websites and letters in circulation.
INEC, in a statement by Festus Okoye, National Commissioner in charge of Information and Voter Education Committee, said such sites and letters did not emanate from the commission but from people it described as “fake employment merchants and racketeers.”
Okoye stated that INEC is currently not recruiting, recalling that on May 30, 2020, “the Commission issued a statement drawing the attention of the public to the circulation of purported letters of employment/appointment allegedly emanating from it.
“We had informed members of the public that the commission suspended its recruitment programme.
“We advised everyone to discountenance all rumours of recruitment and letters of employment/recruitment purportedly emanating from the commission and duly informed the security agencies of the scam.”
He disclosed that the recruitment of fresh graduates and experienced professionals by INEC has since been suspended.
According to him, the Commission is a public trust and has always conducted its activities in the best tradition of openness and transparency.  The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) said it is ready for tomorrow’s governorship election in Edo State. The commission, in a statement by National Commissioner, Festus Okoye, said sensitive materials for the election have been distributed from custody of the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN), Benin City to the various… September 18, 2020 In "News" The introduction of technology in the conduct of elections by the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) in Nigeria has engendered credibility and sanctity of the electoral process, writes ONYEKACHI EZE       The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) is no doubt, on technology revolution. Since the introduction of the… October 11, 2020 In "Politics" ...as deputy gov gets southern leaders’ endorsement for ZLP     The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) has denied a claim by state the chapter of African Action Congress (AAC) that it has replaced its running mate for the October 10 Ondo governorship election.   AAC had in a statement… August 4, 2020 In "News"