The MatchDay Three of the Nigeria Professional Football League witnessed two away wins with Rangers defeating Jigawa Golden Stars 1-0, same as Dakkada FC, which defeated FC IfeanyiUbah 1-0 in Nnewi.  Rivers United maintained their winning run in the league as they make it three wins in three games by thrashing Kwara United 3-0 in Port Harcourt. Lobi Stars hold no prisoner at home, winning 3-0 against Warri Wolves with Enyimba securing a 1-0 win at home against Wikki Tourists.  Heartland’s woes continue after suffering a 3-0 loss against Plateau United in Jos as Katsina United beat Adamawa United 2-0. Kano Pillars ended Nasarawa United’s runs in the young season after securing a 1-1 draw in Lafia. In Lagos, MFM secured their second win of the campaign after a hard fought 1-0 victory against Sunshine Stars of Akure.  Dennis Obasi was the hero for the Church Boys, scoring the only goal of the game in the 7th minute. Sunshine Stars almost secured the equalizer in the final minute of the game with MFM defence clearing the ball off the line. Speaking with our correspondent after the game, Obasi said he was happy getting the only goal of the game.  According to him, it would have been a different story if the last minute goal was not cleared off the line as he looked forward to their next game.  Heartland FC of Owerri on Sunday suffered another loss in the ongoing Nigeria Professional Football League making it the second over one week. The 2020/2021 NPFL season kicked off on December 27, 2020, with Heartland suffering a 3-2 loss against Katsina United while also succumbing to a 2-1 home loss… January 4, 2021 In "Sports" It was another defeat for former Super Eagles coach, Imama Amapakabo, as his Abia Warriors lost their third consecutive game in the three-week old Nigeria Professional Football League (NPFL).   The former Rangers coach joined the Umuahia side ahead of the new campaign but things have not really been going… January 10, 2021 In "Sports" Despite the uncertainty surrounding the return of sporting activities in the country, the Nigeria Professional Football League (NPFL) will finally return today after several postponements.   It would be recalled that the Minister for Youth and Sports Development, Sunday Dare, and the League Management Company recently announced that the NPFL… December 27, 2020 In "Sports"