Tragedy struck on Thursday along Iseyin-Oyo Road when a vehicle conveying a lecturer of The Polytechnic, Ibadan, Architect Kola Oladunjoye, and some other members of the Tertiary Institutions Trust Fund (TETFUND) was involved in an accident and plunged into the Odo Ogun River. Oladunjoye was the immediate past Head of Department of Architecture in the institution, though the identities of the three others have not been made public yet as at the time of filing this report. Saturday Telegraph gathered that Oladunjoye and the trio went to Oke Ogun Polytechnic, Saki for an official assignment. He was said to be the driver of the vehicle. A source said: “They are Tetfund officials who were on official assignment at The Oke-Ogun Polytechnic, Saki. The team also included a staff of The Polytechnic, Ibadan.” Another staff of the Polytechnic, Ibadan, who spoke on the condition of anonymity said, “We identified Architect Kola Oladunjoye, our immediate past Head of Department of Architecture. “He went to Oke-Ogun Polytechnic, Saki, for a programme. He went with his professional team. “We are yet to identify the others who may probably not be our staff. So, sad but who are we to question God? “It is very disheartening that The Poly, Ibadan lost another gem in a fatal motor accident along Saki Road in person of Architect Oladunjoye of the Architecture Department. May his soul rest in peace.” Confirming the incident yesterday, the Public Relations Officer of the Polytechnic, Ibadan, Alhaji Soladoye Adewole, said that the institution’s Rector, Professor Kazeem Adebiyi, and the entire staff of the institution mourned the death of one of its best hands.   CONTEST There is a twist in the appointment of a new Vice- Chancellor for the University of Ibadan (UI). An Ibadan group, The Ibadan Pillars, is calling for appointment of an Ibadan indigene, while Oke- Ogun axis of Oyo State faulted such call, insisting that it is their turn to… August 11, 2020 In "Education" A pregnant woman, a two-yearold baby, policeman and an old woman lost their lives in an auto accident on Iseyin-Saki Road in the Oke Ogun zone in Oyo State. An unconfirmed report initially claimed that 11 people died in the accident, but state Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO), SP Gbenga… September 17, 2020 In "Metro & Crime" The authorities of The Polytechnic of Ibadan have terminated the appointment of Mr. Ajadi Kelani Ojo Omotosho, a lecturer in the Department  of Urban and Regional Planning of the 50-year-old institution over sexual misconduct.   According to the termination letter signed by the Registrar of the Institution, Mrs Fawole M.T.,… September 20, 2020 In "News"