In a move likely to offer phone users in the country a relief from difficulties associated with obtaining the National Identification Number (NIN), a national telecommunications operator, Globacom, has opened its offices for people to walk in and do the registration.  The company said in a statement released in Lagos at the weekend that several of its Gloworld outlets have begun the NIN registration after it obtained the requisite licence from the Nigerian Identity Management Commission (NIMC).  To ensure a smooth exercise for phone users, Globacom said it had installed devices aligned with NIMC standards and had commenced the exercise in several Gloworld outlets, adding that arrangements are being concluded for retail outlets that are not live yet for NIN enrolment to also begin soon.  “We are committed to ensuring that customers have uninterrupted experience on our network and we will continue to support the government’s efforts to create a secure and sustainable industry,” the statement read.  The company explained that Glo subscribers who already have their NIN but are yet to link them with their mobile numbers can do so by simply texting their NIN to 109. “Alternatively, they may dial *109# to submit their NIN. Customers can also call 109 to update their NIN via voice call,” it added.  In line with the Nigerian Communications Commission (NCC) directives to telecommunications subscribers to link their SIMs to their National Identification Numbers (NIN), data grandmasters, Globacom, has rolled out a simplified short code for its subscribers.   In release from the Corporate Communications, Glo said: “All our esteemed customers can now… December 20, 2020 In "News" In about three weeks from now, the Federal Government may be carrying out its threat of blocking lines that are not linked with the National Identity Number (NIN). But beyond the blocking of lines, stakeholders fear many more Nigerians may have by that time contracted and down with the coronavirus… January 21, 2021 In "Business" An obvious advantage of the NIN registration is to have a reliable national database. Different regimes have encouraged Nigerians to procure the National Identity Cards but without much success.   I consider the idea of linking the NIN registration to the mobile phone numbers quite astute and smart since it… January 17, 2021 In "Opinion"