Ahead of the membership registration and revalidation of the All Progressives Congress (APC), the Governor of Kogi State, Alhaji Yahaya Bello, has said that the party would triple its membership.  Bello, who spoke yesterday at the National Secretariat of APC in Abuja after the inauguration of Youths and Women Sensitisation and Mobilisation Committee, also commended the Caretaker/ Extraordinary National Convention Planning Committee for bringing peace into the party.  The Kogi State governor, who was the chairman of the committee, assured the caretaker that the task given to them would be properly carried out. He said: “l want to assure you that we shall move to the field immediately. We are going to swing into action.  We are going to liaise with every stakeholder within the party and across party lines. We are going to generate serious awareness. We are going to educate Nigerian people about our party.  We are going to sensitise the Nigerian people. We are going to mobilise and we are going to have membership of this party tripled if not quadrupled by the grace of God.  “We have taken up this responsibility. It’s a sacrifice, it’s out of patriotism, and it’s a national assignment. We are going to deliver resoundingly. The APC will continue to win every election in this country.”   Senator John Akpan Udoedehe is the Secretary of the All Progressives Congress (APC) Caretaker/ Extra-Ordinary National Convention Planning Committee. In this interview with JOHNCHUKS ONUANYIM on the activities of the committee, he speaks on the forthcoming membership registration of the party and funding of party, among other issues. Excerpts: How… December 4, 2020 In "Politics" The National Executive Council (NEC) of the All Progressives Council (APC), yesterday, approved the immediate dissolution of the party organs at the polling units, wards, local government, states and zonal levels. It also sacked the non- National Working Committee (NWC) component of the National Executive Committee (NEC) as well as… December 9, 2020 In "News" In this analysis, JOHNCHUKS ONUANYIM looks at the controversy in the All Progressives Congress (APC) as its proposed membership validation exercise is said to be a ploy to snatch leadership of the party from some powerful members   Ahead of 2023 elections, the All Progressives Congress (APC) chieftains have engaged… December 6, 2020 In "Politics"