The best thing that happened to Abia North Senatorial Zone was electing Dr. Orji Uzor Kalu to the Senate. No senator would have been able to accomplish what he has achieved in these few months despite the six months of incarceration. Thank God the Senate leadership did not listen to wailers who wanted his seat declared vacant. A seat many had occupied for longer period with next to nothing to show for it in the lives of the people of the senatorial district. I am glad for boldly defending the Senate’s decision on the famous TVC interview, where I publicly told Nigerians that fair hearing was yet to be given to Dr, Kalu and until he is heard at the Supreme Court, his right of appeal cannot be said to have been fully exhausted. This was when many were reluctant to speak up on this issue because they considered it sensitive. What was more sensitive to me was the needs of the zone which he had assured me he wanted to take care of having missed a few of them as a governor owing to the fight with the president that was in charge then . Today, Senator Kalu is impressively living up those promises he made to me in private and to Abia North in the public. Those in doubt should draw up the comparative analysis between him and the previous ones in their 17 months in office. You will be shocked at how well he has represented the Senatorial zone. Ask around though we are very close and he raised me in politics, but I am one of his worst critics and would have told him if he was not accomplishing much as promised. Therefore, on behalf of Bende Federal constituency of Abia State who have mandated me during the last town hall meeting and have asked me to publicly commend him for a job so well done so far and to pledge my support for future accomplishments considering his marks all around the Bende Federal Constituency, I hereby officially commend the senator representing Abia North Senatorial Zone , Senator Orji Uzor Kalu for changing the face of the zone within a short space of time in office despite initial challenges. Truth be told; it is not about the position as a senator but the web of contacts he has built over the years, his wealth of good will and his desire to bring dividends of democracy to the people of Abia North. Instead of influencing the projects out of our zone on selfish grounds, he is insisting the electorate must experience the dividends of democracy from the present APC government. He is doing well and we are following his footsteps. No wonder the APC as a party is the most beautiful bride in Abia State today. While we leave the big projects for him to handle, we partner with him to cover the small ones. Because we are in it together; the beauty of synergy, political cohesion and dedication to one goal under loyalty thanks for setting a good example for those of us that he is leading. Abia North has not seen anything yet; watch out for more in the coming years. We came to sincerely serve our deprived people; it is not about us it is about you the people. The people irrespective of political affiliation should encourage and support good governance, isn’t that what democracy preaches? I have been seen severally supporting any good works of the government of the state, where they score higher. Politics should not blindfold us away from truth and reality. Yes, constructively criticise but to condemn where you ought to commend is not necessary. Does my political weight go down because I said well done to an opposition party that has scored a good point for the electorate? The answer is no. If actually we are in politics for the people,it should not be about self. Often, others complain not because they are not seeing but because political blackmail is a strategic tool for them to attract a biased attention to their self-centred needs over and above that of others. It is not effective once discovered; effective lobbying of the office holder is more strategic than blackmail and unfounded criticisms. There is still honour and truth in political governance. As I have always said, “we were first brothers before we became politicians and will still be family after politics.” Therefore, let’s not destroy what holds us together first as a people. There is no smartness in seeing the truth and politically or diplomatically speaking against it. Dr Orji Kalu is working, so we should encourage him to do more for the zone rather than play to the gallery of pettiness against truth that stares in the face. Welcome to a brief summary of the catalog of some of his numerous interventions spread across the zone in the last 17 months (even while he was incarcerated he worked for Abia North). They include rehabilitation of three primary school blocks at Ndi Agwu Abam primary School, Okweji Memorial School Ozu-Abam and Agbagwu Primary School Aro-Town in Arochukwu Local Government Area. Others are rehabilitation of two primary school blocks at Ugwuafia Primary School and Kpoke Primary School in Ohafia Local Government Area; rehabilitation of two primary school blocks at Otamkpa Community School and Ahaba Imenyi Community School in Isiukwuato Local Government Area; rehabilitation of two primary school blocks at Umuelem Central School, Isuochi and Eziama Community School, Nneato in Umunneochi Local Government Area. The list also has rehabilitation of three blocks at Ozuitem Central School, Okafia Primary school and Item Central School, Okoko in Bende Local Government Area. Projects for Abia North Senatorial District to be accommodated in 2021 budget include construction of 1km rural road with drainage and asphalt from Ututu to Isu in Arochukwu Local Government Area at the cost N90 million; construction of a 2km rural road with drainage and asphalt in Itumbuzo, Bende Local Government Area at N180 million; construction of 1km rural road with drainage and asphalt from Apanu to Akanu in Item, Bende Local Government Area at N90 million. Others are construction of 1km rural road with drainage and asphalt in Uzo Rubber in Amaokwe Item in Bende Local Government Area at N90 million; construction of 2km rural road with drainage and asphalt in Amankalu Alayi to Akoli Imenyi in Bende Local Government Area at N180 million; construction of 1km rural road with drainage and asphalt in Amaoku Alayi in Bende LGA, Abia North Senatorial District, N90m. The projects also include construction of 2km rural road with drainage and asphalt from Abia to Akanu Ukwu in Ohafia Local Government Area at N180 million; construction of 1km rural road with drainage and asphalt in Isiugwu, Ohafia Local Government Area at N90 million; construction of 2km rural road with drainage and asphalt in Uturu Township in Isuikwuato Local Government Area at N180 million and construction of 1km rural road with drainage and asphalt from Ozara junction to Umuasu in Isuikwuato Local Government Area (junction of university road) at N90 million. There are also construction of 1km rural road with drainage and asphalt from Ndi Uduma Awaoke (Chief Awa Kalu SAN road) in Ohafia Local Government Area at N90 million; construction of students hostel in Holy Rosary Secondary school, Umuahia at N50 million; supply of motorcycles, sewing machines and generating sets for Bende Local Government Area at N100 million; supply of motorcycles, sewing machines and generating sets for Ohafia Local Government Area at N100 million; supply of motorcycles, sewing machines and generating sets for Arochukwu Local Government Area at N100 million; supply of wound gel and gynecological (cervical cancer gel) for Abia North Senatorial District at N100 million and supply of rice and fertilizers for rural women in the five councils of Abia North at N200 million. The grand total of these projects amounts to N2 billion. •Hon. Kalu is the member representing Bende Federal Constituency of Abia State in the House of Representatives and spokesman of the House   IGBEAKU ORJI reports on the heroic welcome given to the Senate Whip and ex-governor of Abia State, Dr. Orji Uzor Kalu, on his arrival in the state last week     The Senate Whip, Senator Orji Uzor Kalu, arrived Abia State last week to a tumultuous welcome. The euphoric ambience… August 4, 2020 In "Politics" In continuation of his programmes to empower his constituents, the Senate Chief Whip and a former Governor of Abia State, Dr. Orji Uzor Kalu recently visited home. He was at one of the five local government areas that make up his Abia North Senatorial District, Isikwuato, where he gave out… October 8, 2020 In "News" Chief Whip of the Senate and Senator representing Abia North Senatorial zone,  Senator Orji Uzor Kalu has commended President Muhammadu Buhari for approving the construction of the section two of the Ohafia to Arochukwu road in Abia North Senatorial district of Abia State. The Federal Executive Council (FEC) had… September 24, 2020 In "News"