A three-part exhibition series, ‘The New Nsukka School’, featuring solo exhibitions by artists Ngozi-Omeje Ezema, Eva Obodo, and Ozioma Onuzulike, is set to take place this month to April.  The New Nsukka School exhibition series re-examines the conceptual and aesthetic concerns of the Nsukka School through three contemporary artists, who all currently serve as lecturers or professors in its art department.  Although sharing commonalities in technical approaches and the use of commonplace materials, the differing formal language employed by these artists highlights how they each engage the potentialities and materiality of their chosen medium.  In this context, actions like piercing, tying, stringing, suspending, perforating, cutting, firing, dyeing and roasting, among others, are used as metaphors that explicate the temporariness, permanence and liminality of the human condition.  The Nsukka School is term used to distinguish artists who have studied and taught at the Fine and Applied Arts Department at the University of Nigeria, Nsukka, in Southeastern Nigeria, and who share a critical engagement in both their visual and theoretical fields.  The formal and aesthetic codes of the Nsukka school draw primarily from the art school’s creative ideology which places emphasis on experimentation as a critical aspect of the creative process. An important centre for art education in Nigeria, the experimental trajectory of the post-Civil War art department at Nsukka was spearheaded by Uche Okeke and Chike Aniakor in the early 1970s, and has subsequently been led by prominent artists including Obiora Udechukwu and El Anatsui.  Historically, stylistic trends in the Nsukka school have largely been driven by the enriching influence of art teachers whose pedagogical footprints and artistic sensibilities have had a crystallizing effect on the Nsukka  art school’s stylistic identity. The Nsukka School is best known for the revival of Uli, an Igbo art tradition that was historically used for body art and wall murals, placing this visual language into contemporary art discourses.  As a descriptive label, the Nsukka School references a stylistic heritage whose formal and aesthetic codes draw from a creative ideology that is conceptually idealized, experimentally driven and intellectually grounded.  Nsukka artists leverage this ideology in creating contemporary art through the exploration of ideas, materials and forms sourced from the environment.  Many of these artists are known for a stylistic regime that  critically engages with the materiality and metaphoric value of both natural and man-made objects. The core thesis of Nsukka school art centres on the use of indigenous knowledge to interrogate local and global spheres of art practice.  Announcing the exhibition, kó, an art space based in Ikoyi, Lagos, Nigeria, stated that the first in the series features a solo exhibition by Ngozi-Omeje Ezema, lecturer of ceramics at University of Nigeria, Nsukka, which opens tomorrow January 28, and will run till Thursday, February 11.  Titled ‘Boundless Vases’, Ezema’s exhibition includes recent ceramic art installations that present the artist’s ongoing exploration of the leaf motif as an expressive visual element rich in affective metaphors. Taking her personal experiences as a point of departure, her work addresses issues relating to identity, family and the female body.  She often references the object of the vessel in various ways, taking inspiration from the forms and materials of the natural environment. Ezema received her BA in Fine and Applied Arts from the University of Nigeria, Nsukka, and an MFA in ceramics from the same institution. She currently serves as a lecturer at the University of Nigeria, Nsukka, where she teaches ceramics.  Her first solo exhibition, ‘Connecting Deep’, was held at Centre for Contemporary Art (CCA) Lagos in 2018. She also participated in the First International Biennale in Centra China and Le Pinceau De L’Integration in Senegal, during the Dakar Biennale in 2016. She was commissioned for a special project installation at Art X Lagos in 2016.  In 2019, she won the High Excellence Award at the Cheongju International Craft Biennale in South Korea. Ezema has participated in artist residencies with the Centre for Contemporary Art/ Trianglar Art Trust (Lagos), Goethe-Institut Nigeria (Nsukka), Sevshoon Art Centre (Seattle), Goethe Institute Ghana (Kumasi), and the Trianglar Art Trust (Jos). Her project, Against    All Odds, won the Outstanding Concept Award of Nigeria’s National Art Competition in 2015. In 2014, she was the winner of the Life in My City Art Foundation Prize. Ezema lives and works in Nsukka, Nigeria.  The second show in the exhibition series will feature Eva Obodo, Senior Lecturer in sculpture at the University of Nigeria, Nsukka, taking place February 25 to March 11, 2021. Obodo focuses on fibre and charcoal as conceptual mediums, creating relief paintings and free standing sculptures that are created from processes of wrapping, tying and bundling.  Incorporating discarded materials such as charcoal and jute fibre, Obodo creates visual narratives that evoke the complex socio-political and economic structures that frame contemporary culture. Obodo’s charcoal works reference issues of natural resources and development in Nigeria, while his fibre works utilise nylon threads that are tied, rolled and wrapped to create colorful visual metaphors.  Together, they speak to the connections between individuals and their social relations woven against economic and political backgrounds, connected by community, nation and the global economy through the trade of goods and ideas.  The third exhibition presents Ozioma Onuzulike, Professor of Ceramics and Art History, taking place March 25-April 8, 2021. Onuzulike is a ceramic artist, poet and historian of African art and design whose studio work has largely focused on the historical and sociological roots of the political and socio-economic turmoil in Africa and their debilitating effects on daily living on the continent.  He often explores the aesthetic, symbolic and metaphorical nature of clay (his basic material) and the clay-working processes – pounding, crushing, hammering, wedging, grinding, cutting, pinching, punching, perforating, burning, firing – in his making of the multiple units that characterize his mixedmedia projects.  His recent work has been inspired by the aesthetic and conceptual force held by such natural resources as yam tubers, palm kernel shells and honeycombs which he mass-produces in terracotta and weaves together in often laborious processes.   Governor Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi of Enugu State has presented a brand new bus to Model Secondary School, Nsukka, in recognition of the school's outstanding performance in the 2019 President's Teachers & Schools Excellence Award (PTSEA) of the Federal Ministry of Education. The state government also promoted the principal of the school,… July 10, 2020 In "News" Renowned artist and founder, TAFAS Legacy Gallery,  Chief Timothy Banjo Fasuyi, professionally known as Tafas, in this interview with TONY OKUYEME, shares his thoughts about Covid-19 and how it has affected on the arts and culture sector. The octogenarian artist and former Federal Art Adviser also talks on the other… July 1, 2020 In "Arts & Entertainments" Tunde Odunlade is a notable printmaker and batik artist based in Ibadan, Nigeria. A widely exhibited artist, he has traveled extensively within Nigeria and in Africa, North America, and Europe. Odunlade who is also an actor and has performed with various theatre productions, recently launched an art gallery named Tunde… December 23, 2020 In "Arts & Entertainments"