Federal Operations Unit, Zone ‘C’ of the Nigeria Customs Service (NCS) said it intercepted 5,200 live ammunition, 1,215 bags of foreign rice and a bulletproof Toyota Land Cruiser during the Yuletide. The Controller, Federal Operations Unit Zone ‘C’, Mr. Yusuf Lawal, displayed the seized items in Owerri, Imo State, yesterday. The controller, according to the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN), said the seizures were made between November 23 and December 27, 2020. Giving a breakdown of the items, Lawal said the Duty Paid Value (DPV) of the live ammunition was N3 million, while the DPV of the foreign rice was N36 million. He added that the DPV of the bulletproof Land Cruiser and other three vehicles seized during the period was N221 million. Lawal said 38 ‘Jumbo Bales’ known as used clothes worth N3 million were also intercepted during the period under review. On general merchandise, the controller said 204 foreign tin tomatoes, pharmaceutical products and others worth N115 million were intercepted. Lawal disclosed that N7 million was recovered from a Demand Notice (DN) on 3X40ft containers which, he said, was as a result of wrong declaration and transfer of value. He added: “The live ammunition was intercepted on Nwezenyi Ikom Road in Cross River State, while the 1,215 bags of rice were intercepted on Okada Road in Edo State and the tomatoes and pharmaceuticals were intercepted on Onitsha-Enugu Expressway. “Today, I’m elated to inform you that after reflecting and re-viewing our operational modalities toward sustaining our statutory mandate of anti-smuggling operations, we have intercepted various contraband. “On assumption of duty, I held a series of meetings with my sectional heads, where we unveiled the management mandate which includes blockage of all revenue leakages and amplification of anti-smuggling operations.” The controller noted that the said total amount of DPV and DN of the seizures made during the period was N386 million. Lawal said the activities of smugglers were a great sabotage to the Nigerian economy. He added: “Considering the level of insecurity in the country, if these live ammunition were not intercepted, the country would have been in trouble. “These seizures were made since I took over as the Controller, Federal Operations Zone C. We will not give up the fight against smuggling in the country.” Lawal commended the Comptroller- General of Customs for giving them the will power to continue to fight against smuggling and warned smugglers to henceforth stop illegal importation of goods into Nigeria. He added: “The unit is ready to fight them to a standstill.”  The Federal Operations Unit (FOU) Zone 'C' Owerri, of the Nigeria Customs Service (NCS) has intercepted 3,122 rounds of ammunition. The ammunition and other contraband items confiscated since the COVID-19 pandemic lockdown came to a total Duty Paid Value of N442,473,000 million. Controller of the NCS, FOU Zone C, Mr… June 25, 2020 In "Metro & Crime" Despite the joint border patrol, private warehouses are still filled with foreign rice and other contraband, which government had restricted from coming into the country since August 2019, BAYO AKOMOLAFE reports   The closure of Nigeria’s borders, which was undertaken in August, 2019, to strengthen the nation’s security and protect… July 15, 2020 In "Business" Nigeria Customs Service (NCS) antismuggling unit, Federal Operations Unit (FOU), Zone A in Lagos has raised N17 billion debit notes from importers for false declaration and wrong classification of imports, and from contraband seized from smugglers between January and June 2020.   Some of the contraband seized from smugglers operating… July 13, 2020 In "News"