The Nigeria Basketball Federation (NBF) has invited 16 players to Atlanta for a 10- day training camp as preparation commences for the 2020 Olympics Games in Tokyo. Training camp to be held at Fairfield Inn & Suites, Atlanta will start on Sunday and end on Monday, February 8.  The list is headlined by centre; Elizabeth Williams, who plays for Atlanta Dreams in the WNBA and 26th overall draft pick, Erica Ogwumike, Minnesota Lynx who are part of the five new faces joining the team.  Nicole Enabosi will have another chance to be a part of the team after missing out of the 2018 FIBA World Cup in Spain due to injury she suffered while with the team. Forward, Amy Okonkwo, with Club Deportivo Zamarat in Spain, has also been invited alongside Oderah Chidom, with Tsmoki- Minsk BC of Bulgaria, as well as Pallas Kunaiyi-Akpannah of Pallacanestro Vigarano of Italy.  Most Valuable Player of the 2020 Afrobasket, Ezinne Kalu, who plays for Landerneau BB, makes a return to the team with Promise Amukamara (Charnay BB) and Evelyn Akhator (Flammes Carolo) all based in France.  Team captain, Adaora Elonu (Uni Girona CB) will lead the Spanish legion which has Elo Edeferioka (Celta de Vigo Baloncesto) and Atonye Nyingifa (Ensino Lugo Club de Baloncesto) Coach Otis Hughley also handed an invitation to Sarah Ogoke, Sarah Imovbioh (Basketball Club Namur- Capital, Belgium), 20-year-old guard, Elizabeth Balogun with Louisville Cardinals as well as Kosovo Superleague side, KB Bashkimi new signing and four-time FIBA Afrobasket winner, Aisha Balarabe.  A former Super Eagles player and former Nigeria U-17 team coach, Emmanuel Amuneke, spoke to ADEKUNLE SALAMI about the current realities due to COVID-19 and the future of the game in Nigeria. Excerpts: How is life in Egypt and how are you enjoying your new role with Misr Lel Makassa?… August 1, 2020 In "Sports" The outbreak of the COVID- 19 pandemic across the world put most activities on hold and impacted negatively on people in all spheres of life. With the National Sports Festival just few days away in March, the Nigerian government announced the first lockdown and everything was put on hold but… August 8, 2020 In "Sports" …as All-Comers event takes centre stage The Athletic Federation of Nigeria will kickstart its 2021 calendar of activities with the All-Comers competition taking place on Saturday at the Federal University of Technology in Akure, the Ondo State capital. The competition, the first in the calendar of events for the year… January 28, 2021 In "Sports"