Should the two dominant parties in the country; the All Progressives Congress (APC) and the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), fail to nominate a South East presidential candidate in 2023, indication emerging is they risk mass defection of the Igbos to another political party in order to actualise their ambition. It would be recalled that a resolution was made at Igbere country home of Chief Orji Uzor Kalu in Abia State where South East politicians across both parties insisted that the APC and PDP should nominate a candidate of South East extraction. Giving this indication, the former governor of Anambra State Dr. Chukwuemeka Ezeife, said that there are other political parties registered in Nigeria that can be used by the South East to achieve their ambition, warning that the position of Ndigbo should not be taken for granted. “Any right thinking Igbo man knows that the time is ripe for us to be in Aso Rock Villa and we are working towards that but be it known that the PDP and APC are not the only party in the country and any other parties can also be used to get to our destination. ‘‘When this happens you will discover that our people hold the body and soul of these political parties and with this new spirit, it is achievable. ‘‘This is, however, not yet in the drawing board of the South East leaders but the two political parties may play the catalyst that may lead to the defections and I pray that the parties would respond positively to our demands,’’ he noted.  More reactions yesterday trailed the defection of Ebonyi State Governor, Dave Umahi, to the All Progressives Congress (APC), as some prominent Igbo leaders said Umahi’s defection is a strong warning to the APC and the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) to pick the presidential candidates of their parties from the South-East… November 21, 2020 In "News" The duo of first Republic Minister of Aviation, Chief Mbazulike Amaechi, and former governor of Anambra State, Dr. Chukwuemeka Ezeife, have urged the North and South-West to back the presidential ambition of Igbos of the South-East geopolitical zone, come the 2023 general elections. The two elder statesmen told Sunday Telegraph… November 22, 2020 In "News" Presidency: Zoning to determine APC, PDP’s fate in S’East   An early race for the soul of the South-East has commenced ahead of the 2023 general election as the leading political parties strategise on how to consolidate on already gained grounds or to expand frontiers in the five states that… November 30, 2020 In "Politics"