Erstwhile Super Eagles striker Odion Ighalo has been a huge transfer target for La Liga outfit Real Betis, New Telegraph can report.  According to Spanish sports daily Estadio Deportivo, Betis Betis are desperate to land the Manchester United striker in the January transfer window.  However, the deal would have taken place if not for the paucity of funds as the Spanish club is looking to sell some players to fund the deal. Betis’ purse has been badly decimated by the coronavirus pandemic and needs external funding to carry out transfer activities It is for that reason that Real Betis’ Chilean boss Manuel Pellegrini has reiterated that he’s 99.9 percent sure there won’t be any new signings in the January transfer window.  Having said that, the sporting director of Real Betis, Antonio Cordón has drawn up a list of transfer targets and one name that Pellegrini likes is Ighalo.  It is believed that Ighalo’s agent Atta Aneke still maintains close ties with Real Betis, having brokered the deal that took Nigeria international Nosa Igiebor to the club in August 2012.   Paris Saint-Germain are yet to contact Manchester United striker Odion Ighalo or his representatives which has put paid to reports suggesting the French champions are keen on signing the Nigerian. Ighalo joined Manchester United on loan in January and his deal was extended until January 2021 in the summer. The… August 15, 2020 In "Sports" Manchester United’s Nigerian loanee, Odio Ighalo may not return to China in January if the move by Ligue1 side, Paris Saint-Germain sees the light of the day. The French side is reportedly lining up a shock move for Odion Ighalo whose last day transfer market move came as a… August 14, 2020 In "Sports" After a brief yet turbulent close season marked by the attempted departure of Lionel Messi, little transfer activity and the renewed threat of the coronavirus in Spain, La Liga returns today amid a fixture list chaos and a decidedly gloomy outlook. The league was forced to change the days… September 12, 2020 In "Sports"