 Donald Trump is already awaiting his second impeachment trial by the Senate once he leaves office. A sideshow to all this is that he now faces possible expulsion from the Screen Actors Guild.
SAG-AFTRA, the union which represents working performers, said on Tuesday its national board found Trump had probably violated its rules over his alleged incitement of the Capitol riot, reports the BBC.
The board has requested his expulsion and the issue will now be heard by the body’s disciplinary committee.
“The charges specifically cite Trump’s role in inciting the attack on the US Capitol on January 6, and in sustaining a reckless campaign of misinformation aimed at discrediting and ultimately threatening the safety of journalists, many of whom are SAG-AFTRA members,” the statement said.
According to the AP news agency, the former Apprentice star has been a member of the Screen Actors Guild since 1989. He has also made cameo appearances in films and TV series including Home Alone 2.  Recently, the Actors Guild of Nigeria (AGN) took a major step to addressing the challenges of members as it launched HMO scheme with Medicard Nigeria, a global lifestyle health management company with presence in Philippines, Canada and Nigeria.   The launching held in Lekki, Lagos, had in attendance, President, Actors… August 26, 2020 In "Arts & Entertainments" The PGA of America cut ties to President Donald Trump when it voted Sunday to take the PGA Championship event away from his New Jersey golf course next year. The vote comes four days after the Trump-fueled riot at the nation’s Capitol as Congress was certifying the election victory… January 11, 2021 In "Sports" To help cater for the well-being of entertainers, an online crowd-funding platform, quickraiz.com, has partnered Actors Guild of Nigeria (AGN) to raise N50million for ailing actors and old actors.   Launched in 2018, Quickraiz is, an online fundraising platform that allows individuals and organisations to legally expand their target audience… August 16, 2020 In "Sunday Magazine"