 Muritala Ayinla There was pandemonium Thursday morning along the Oshodi-Apapa Expressway as a tanker conveying about 55,000 litres of petrol, otherwise known as Premium Motor Spirit (PMS), lost control and exploded around Toyota Bus Stop, Ladipo area of Lagos. .
Although as at the time of filing this report it couldn’t be ascertained if any life was lost, it was learnt that the incident which occurred at about 9:15 am left the facilities around the axis burnt.
The National Emergency Agency, Lagos State Emergency Agency and other responders were on hand to bring the situation under control.
Speaking on the incident, the Director-General, LASEMA, Dr Femi Oke-Osanyintolu said that the ill-fated tanker lost control and summersaulted
while trying to negotiate a bend  and spilled its contents.
He said: “Arrival at the scene revealed that a tanker with an unknown registration number loaded with 55 thousand litres of petrol (PMS) while trying to negotiate a bend and overturned and spilled its contents.
“LRT, LRU Fire and LASG Fire are all responders collaborating together to manage the scene due to the large number of stationary and parked vehicles within the vicinity.
“The Agency’s heavy duty equipment has been mobilized to recover the remains of the tanker from the road.”
He said that the emergency management operation was still in progress.  A tanker conveying Premium Motor Spirit (PMS), popularly known as petrol, lost control while in motion at Anthony inward Gbagada area of Lagos State on Friday night and subsequently fell sideways. This led to an explosion in which two other unidentified vehicles were burnt. A joint team of responders… September 19, 2020 In "Metro & Crime" •FRSC says hoodlums prevented rescuers reaching accident scene   A fuel laden tanker yesterday exploded at the Kara end of the Lagos- Ibadan Expressway, killing the driver and the motor boy. Thirty-five vehicles, including those parked on the highway were also burnt.   Although the Federal Road Safety Commission (FRSC)… November 8, 2020 In "Sunday Magazine" A fuel-laden tanker has gone up in flames at the Kara end of the Lagos-Ibadan Expressway. According to reports, the tanker caught fire at about 1 am on Saturday. The incident caused a massive gridlock especially for motorists travelling out of Lagos. Eyewitnesses said some vehicles had been caught… November 7, 2020 In "Metro & Crime"