 The National Basketball Association (NBA) postponed three more games and the National Hockey League (NHL) once again pushed back the Dallas Stars’ season opener, amid a surge of COVID-19 cases that has put professional sport on notice in North America.
Two games between the Cleveland Cavaliers and Washington Wizards set for Sunday and Monday were on hold, the NBA said on Friday, because the Wizards did not have the “league-required eight available players to proceed” due to ongoing contact tracing on the team.
Hours later, the NBA halted a Friday game between the Memphis Grizzlies and Minnesota Timberwolves, citing a similar shortfall of available players on the Minnesota team, making it the 12th game since Sunday that the league has postponed, reports Reuters.
Sixteen new players have tested positive for COVID-19 since Jan. 6, the NBA said on Wednesday, after the league and its players’ association agreed on Tuesday to “additional measures” to protect players and staff.
Both the NBA and the NHL are adapting to the harsh reality of life beyond the quarantined “bubble” settings they used to close out their respective seasons last year, roughly 10 months since the coronavirus pandemic put most sport on hold.
The NHL on Friday delayed the Dallas Stars’ 2020-21 season opener after a team-wide outbreak in which 17 players tested positive, and the team is now expected to open against the Nashville Predators on Jan. 22.
The United States is experiencing a surge of novel coronavirus cases, and vaccine shortages and delays are further confounding the fight against the pandemic.
The National Football League (NFL), which saw numerous delays but no outright cancellations during its regular season, reportedly plans to assign COVID-19 monitors here to the final four teams ahead its AFC and NFC title games, as it pushes toward a Feb. 7 Super Bowl game with little to no wiggle room for delay.  Forty-eight NBA players tested positive for COVID-19, the league said on Wednesday, as players returned to their team's home markets for the start of the 2020-21 season on December 22. The NBA said it tested 546 players as part of its "initial return-to-market testing phase," which kicked off between… December 3, 2020 In "Sports" The NBA postponed all three scheduled playoff games on Wednesday after Milwaukee Bucks players boycotted Game 5 of their series against the Orlando Magic in protest over the police shooting of Jacob Blake in Wisconsin. Blake, a black man who was shot seven times in the back by police… August 26, 2020 In "Sports" At the weekend, the Minister of Sports, Sunday Dare, commended President Muhammadu Buhari and the Presidential Task Force (PTF) on COVID-19 for reopening football and team sports behind closed doors in line with COVID-19 guidelines.   National Coordinator of PTF, Dr. Sani Aliyu, had on Thursday announced the reopening of… September 8, 2020 In "Editorial"