Governor Oluwarotimi Akeredolu of Ondo State, yesterday, declared that the people of the state cannot continue to live in fear as a result of cases of kidnapping, robbery and other criminal activities recorded in the state.  This is as the governor received in his office, the newly posted Assistant Inspector General of Police for Zone 17, headquartered in Akure, Isaac Akinmoyede and the new Brigade commander of the 32 Artillery, Owena Cantonment, Brig. Gen. Raymond Utsaha.  While receiving the two Security Chiefs, Akeredolu, who urged the new AIG and Brigade Commander to collaborate with other security agencies in the state for optimum performance, noted that insecurity can be tackled in a different way when there are synergizes. The governor received the new heads of security agencies in the state in a separate visit to his office, Alagabaka, Akure yesterday. He appreciated the police for the measure of cooperation given to the state  security network, otherwise known as Amotekun Corps. Akeredolu said: “We have great challenges. We need all hands on deck. Our challenges are enormous. Top of it is the issue of kidnapping. “We cannot continue to live in fears. It is our constitutional responsibility as governor and as police to prevent crimes and guarantee the security of lives and property of our people.”  The governor assured the new AIG and the Brigade commander of a good working relationship as extended to their predecessors in office. AIG Akinmoyede, who appreciated the governor for his support and cooperation enjoyed by the recently created zone 17 and the state command said: “I want to thank you for the cooperation that the Nigeria police Ondo State command has been receiving from your office.  I have had an extensive briefing from the commissioner of police and he spoke well of your efforts. I thank you for the progress made so far on zone 17 headquarters.”  The AIG assured the governor of his readiness to cooperate with Amotekun and synergize with other security agencies in the state.  The outgone Brigade Commander of 32 Artillery, Brig. Gen. Zakari Abubakar, stated that, “I want to thank you for so many reasons.  For your enormous support for the 32 artillery; from the road construction in the barrack, identifying with us. You gave loans to the families of the fallen heroes and so many promises to the living heroes so that they won’t be forgotten  Adewale Momoh, Akure Following the security challenges that the country is battling with, Governor Oluwarotimi Akeredolu of Ondo State has made a case for modern equipment for the Nigerian Military to help in the fight against insurgents and other criminalities in the country. While also calling for multi-level policing… January 10, 2021 In "Metro & Crime" T he much rumoured feud between the Governor of Ondo State, Mr. Oluwarotimi Akeredolu (SAN) and his deputy, Hon. Agboola Ajayi, came to a head yesterday.     In what was a confirmation of the feud, Ajayi finally abandoned his boss and defected to the opposition Peoples Democratic Party (PDP).… June 22, 2020 In "News" ...as Agbalajobi predicts victory in gov’s favour With about 48 hours to the governorship election in Ondo State, President Muhammadu Buhari has urged residents of the state to vote for the re-election of Governor Oluwarotimi Akeredolu in the Saturday’s election. According to the President, who addressed supporters of the All… October 8, 2020 In "News"