 Some officials of the Deeper Life High School in Uyo, Akwa Ibom state capital have been arraigned for their alleged role in the sexual molestation and forced starvation of an 11-year-old student of the school.
The police are arraigning the suspects following their investigation of the petition by the mother of the student, Mrs Deborah Okezie, against the school principal, Ndidi Solomon, and three others.
In her petition, Mrs Okezie had alleged that her son, a JSS 1 student of the school, was sexually molested, inhumanly treated, and starved in the school.
She had raised an alarm in a viral social media video claiming that the abuse was perpetrated by some senior students of the school, sparking outrage and investigation by the police.
The school authorities also last week also vowed to ensure justice is done on the matter. The school’s Education Secretary, Mrs Thelma Malaka in a video stated that the school would not cover up the issue but ensure justice was served.
“We would like to restate that Deeper Life High School stands on the core values of integrity and uprightness and will not attempt to cover up any immoral act under any guise,” Malaka said in the video.
Meanwhile, journalists have been barred from covering the proceedings which is currently going on an High Court in Uyo.  …we’ve hands off case for police –A’Ibom govt Embattled Deborah Okezie, mother of Don Davis, the Deeper Life High School student, who was alleged to have been sexually abused recently, said her life is in danger over her quest for justice for her abused child in deeper life college, Uyo.… January 2, 2021 In "News" Following the alleged sexual abuse of an 11-year-old student of the school in Uyo, the police in Akwa Ibom State are preparing to arraign some officials of the Deeper Life High School. Some officials of the school were said to have been detained after attending a meeting at the… January 6, 2021 In "Education" The Judicial Panel of Investigation on Incidences of police brutality and other human rights violations in Akwa Ibom State yesterday received shocking cases of extra-judicial killings by the police as it commenced sitting.   The Akwa Ibom State Government had on October 20, set up a judicial panel to investigate… November 17, 2020 In "News"