 Japan’s top-ranked sumo wrestler Hakuho has tested positive for coronavirus, the Japan Sumo Association (JSA) announced on Tuesday.
Mongolian-born Hakuho, who is the longest-serving yokozuna – top-ranked sumo wrestler – of all time announced via the JSA website that he took a COVID-19 test after losing his sense of smell, reports Reuters.
Hakuho will now seek the advice of specialists and the other wrestlers in his Miyagino stable will now also be tested, according to the statement.
Hakuho’s positive test comes just five days before the sumo New Year Grand Tournament is due to start on January 10.
So far, the JSA hasn’t said whether the tournament will be postponed.
In May, 28-year-old sumo wrestler Shobushi died due to multiple organ failure related to the coronavirus after he became infected.
As of Tuesday, Japan has reported 249,246 cases of coronavirus and 3,693 deaths.
Japanese Prime Minister Yoshihide Suga on Tuesday told a ruling party meeting a state of emergency declaration for Tokyo and the surrounding area would be decided on Thursday, local media has reported.  More than 1 million people have died after contracting the novel coronavirus and over 33 million infected. Leading figures in politics, sport, royalty and entertainment are among them: * PROMINENT CASES * British actor Robert Pattinson tested positive for COVID-19, news media reported on Sept. 3, halting production of… September 29, 2020 In "News" Dwayne "The Rock" Johnson says he and his family had all contracted Covid-19. The former wrestler, who is now the world's highest-paid actor, said he, his wife and two daughters caught the virus despite being "disciplined" about health protection. He said the positive tests were "a kick in the… September 3, 2020 In "Arts & Entertainments" Stephen Miller, a top aide to Donald Trump, has tested positive for Covid-19, joining a growing a growing list of figures close to the president who have contracted the virus as the White House scrambles to contain a growing outbreak. “Over the last 5 days I have been working remotely… October 7, 2020 In "News"