…as Kane injures ankle Liverpool reignited their title defence by ending a five-match winless run in the Premier League with a dominant win at Tottenham.
Roberto Firmino tapped the Reds ahead on the stroke of half-time when Hugo Lloris and Eric Dier hesitated in dealing with Sadio Mane’s low cross, reports the BBC.
Trent Alexander-Arnold drilled in the second before Pierre-Emile Hojbjerg’s stunner gave Spurs a glimmer of hope.
But Mane lashed the ball home to seal the win and move Liverpool into fourth.
Spurs, who stay sixth after trailing Liverpool by a point going into the game, saw their miserable evening compounded by striker Harry Kane suffering an ankle injury.
The England captain, who has a history of ankle problems, was withdrawn at half-time as a result of the problem.
He was able to continue before being replaced by Erik Lamela at the break.
Kane, 27, has spent considerable time on the sidelines with a number of serious ankle injuries in recent seasons.
He was ruled out for two significant spells in the second half of the 2018-19 season, missing seven games when he damaged ligaments in his left ankle in January 2019 and then nine more games with a lateral ligament injury sustained in April.
In 2017-18, he missed a month with a similar injury to the right ankle, and endured separate absences of six and four weeks during the 2016-17 campaign.
“You just hope it’s not going to be ligament damage that will put him out for a long time because he’s been absolutely phenomenal this season – his contributions, his passing, goals and assists,” said former Spurs defender Stephen Kelly on BBC Radio 5 Live.
“He’s been the all-round complete forward and unplayable at times. Tottenham just can’t afford to lose him.”
RESULT
Spurs 1 – 2 Liverpool  *Son, Kane score again as Spurs beat Arsenal to go top Defending champions Liverpool welcomed the return of fans to Anfield for the first time since March with an emphatic victory over Wolves. Mohamed Salah gave Liverpool the lead in the first half after Wolves defender Conor Coady misjudged a… December 6, 2020 In "Sports" *Brighton cruise past Magpies, Son sinks Saints with 4 goals Sadio Mane scored two second-half goals as defending champions Liverpool won comfortably at Stamford Bridge against 10-man Chelsea in the Premier League. Defender Andreas Christensen bundled over Mane - denying a goalscoring opportunity - on the stroke of half-time and… September 20, 2020 In "Sports" *Fulham take point from champions Liverpool, Palace deny Spurs *Saints hammer Sheffield United 3-0 Granit Xhaka was sent off for violent conduct as a desperately poor Arsenal side were stunned at home by Premier League strugglers Burnley. Gunners skipper Pierre-Emerick Aubameyang's wretched run of form continued as he failed to… December 13, 2020 In "Sports"