All things being equal, Super Eagles captain Ahmed Musa should stage a return to the English Premier League as negotiation between his representatives and West Brom reached critical stage.  M u s a didn’t quite make a strong impression before he quits Leicester City some three years ago but the forward is likely going to return to the English Premier League to prove himself.  According to the Daily Mail UK, the Baggies are eyeing up a move for the striker following his release from Saudi Arabian side Al- Nassr – with the Nigerian believing he has unfinished business in the EPL. West Brom had reignited their interest in Musa after missing out on his signature in the summer transfer window despite the player agreeing personal terms.  The report from England adds that West Brom have requested a UK visa for the p l a y e r who has attended two editions of the World Cup and he’s expected to arrive in the West Midlands on Wednesday for a routine medical.  If all goes well, Musa is expected to sign a short term deal with West Brom until the end of the 2020-2021 season.  Super Eagles captain Ahmed Musa has become a target for Columbian side Tigres FC, New Telegraph can report. The Eagles skipper has become an object of interest from a number of clubs and CONCACAF Champions League winners Tigres FC are the latest club showing interest in the free agent. According… January 2, 2021 In "Sports" Slaven Bilic has been sacked by West Brom, with former England manager Sam Allardyce likely to replace him as head coach at The Hawthorns. Bilic was dismissed on Wednesday despite his side earning a 1-1 draw at Manchester City on Tuesday night, reports the BBC. "Albion would like to thank… December 16, 2020 In "Sports" *Wins for Man United, Arsenal,  Leicester League One Blackpool produced one of the biggest shocks of Saturday's FA Cup third-round action by beating West Brom on penalties, while non-league Chorley eliminated a youthful Derby side that had been affected by Covid-19. Premier League West Brom lost 3-2 on penalties after the two… January 10, 2021 In "Sports"