 Manchester United midfielder Bruno Fernandes was delighted by Friday’s 2-1 win over Aston Villa that put them level on points with leaders Liverpool, but said his side must learn to kill teams off to sustain a Premier League title challenge.
United stretched their unbeaten league run to 10 games with Fernandes netting the winner from the penalty spot after Bertrand Traore had cancelled out the home side’s opener from Anthony Martial, reports Reuters.
United largely controlled the game but Paul Pogba, Fernandes and Marcus Rashford failed to drive home their advantage.
In the dying minutes, Ole Gunnar Solskjaer’s side were forced to defend desperately with centre back Eric Bailly putting in a crucial stoppage-time block to deny Villa a draw.
“It was tough. We have to learn from this,” Fernandes told reporters after the game.
“We have to manage the game much better. We had some situations to close the game, you have to try and score because we know that teams can score. If we close the game early it is better. It is better. We have to take care of this.”
Pogba put in a solid performance in midfield, starting the move for Martial’s opener before winning the crucial penalty.
Fernandes is confident the France World Cup winner will continue to deliver strong performances.
“We all know the qualities he has. It is not in doubt here. He will give more and more with the confidence he gets game after game,” Fernandes said.
United next face Manchester City in the semi-final of the League Cup on Wednesday.  Incorrect penalty decisions were made by the video assistant referee in all three of Thursday's games, the Premier League has told BBC Match of the Day. Bruno Fernandes won a spot-kick which he scored in Manchester United's 3-0 win over Aston Villa. James Ward-Prowse hit the bar after a disputed… July 10, 2020 In "Sports" *Wins for Spurs, Chelsea, Brighton Bruno Fernandes' twice-taken second-half penalty was enough to give Manchester United their first Premier League victory of the season at Old Trafford over a battling West Brom outfit. Former United keeper Sam Johnstone made a string of superb stops to deny his old club, included… November 22, 2020 In "Sports" ...as Lukaku sets record in Inter win Manchester United needed an extra-time penalty from Bruno Fernandes to finally see off a spirited FC Copenhagen and set up a potential Europa League semi-final against Wolves. United were poor for much of the first half in the heat of Cologne but still… August 10, 2020 In "Sports"