 Air Marshall Nsikak Eduok (rtd), has died at the age of 74.
Eduok, the 12th Chief of the Air Staff (CAS) of the Nigerian Air Force, according to sources died Wednesday evening at the Ibom Multi-Specialty Hospital, Uyo, in Akwa Ibom State, where he had been treated for some undisclosed health challenges.
He was born on July 11, 1947, at Mbak in Akwa Ibom State, and enlisted into the NAF as a potential pilot on August 1, 1968.
Air Marshal Eduok had his initial military training at the Nigerian Defence Academy after which he went for primary flying training in 1970.
He was appointed as the CAS on August 27, 1993, but the appointment was reversed a week later by the then military government.
He was redeployed as Air Officer Commanding Tactical Air Command (AOC TAC) and also appointed a member of the Provisional Ruling Council (PRC).
On March 20, 1995, he was appointed a member of the Federal Executive Council as Minister of Aviation.
He was in this position till he was finally reappointment as the CAS on March 30, 1996.  The ongoing #EndSars protest has taken a completely different dimension in Uyo, the Akwa Ibom State capital, as the hitherto peaceful conduct has snowballed into rioting.   The protesters had earlier in the afternoon stormed the entrance of Idongesit Nkanga Secretariat, displacing unsuspecting workers who fled at the sight of… October 22, 2020 In "Metro & Crime" ...to be given full military honours The remains of the late first female combat helicopter pilot, Flying Officer Tolulope Arotile, will be laid to rest on Thursday, July 23, at the National Military Cemetery in Abuja. In a statement by its Director of Publix Relations and Information (DOPRI), Air Commodore… July 17, 2020 In "News" Thousands of youths on Friday staged a peaceful protest along the Ikot Abasi -Port Harcourt portion of the East-West road in Akwa Ibom State. The youths demanded the position of executive director, finance and administration, in the Interim Management Committee (IMC) of the Niger Delta Development Commission (NDDC). The position… June 20, 2020 In "News"