…extends empowerment   project to the public  The proprietor of Ottasolo Football Club, Gabriel Davies, has promised that the new outfit will take the football scene by storm in Nigeria.  Davies said his team, Ottasolo FC , would be administered like a professional outfit even though the team just registered for the Nigeria National League Amateur division.  He stressed that he did not join the football scene by accident but did so due to his passion after proper planning on how the team will be administered. “We sat down to plan all the logistics of running the club and that was why we made impact even in our first tournament, the Wike pre season tourney in Port Harcourt.  “There are experts in every area to manage the team . We are here to stay and not eager for results because our target is to do the right thing.  “One other interesting area is the business aspect of football. As young as we are, we are very deep in this already. Seven of out top players are now in various teams in the NPFL and that is just the beginning.  “Ourplayerssharethevissionof thecluband we are positive that gradually, we will make a huge impact in the domestic football scene.” Davies, a former Super Stores player who has an empowerment programme for former footballers, has extended the programme to the public .  The Ottasolo boss grant loans to people to helpfacilitatetheirrespectivebusinessventures. “Things are generally tough in the country and because we all feel it, not only footballers, we decided to extend the empowerment programme to the public,” Davies added.  …registers Ottasolo for amateur league   A football administrator, Gabriel Davies, has revealed that his passion for the round leather game informed his empowerment programme for former players.   The former Stationery Stores and Mogas ’90 of Benin player said even in retirement, football was all his life and that… January 18, 2021 In "Sports" •Club boss happy with team     Port Harcourt Despite the elimination of his club, the chairman of giant killer of the Governor Nyedom Wike Pre-Season Championships, Ottasolo FC, Gabriel Davies, has applauded his team for the yeoman's job done at the tournament.   According to the retired footballer, his… November 15, 2020 In "Sports" Rivers Commissioner for Sports, Boma Iyaye has said the state is ready to partner with companies, organisations and individuals in the promotion and development of sports in the state.   Iyaye stated this at the presentation of branded tracksuits to Rivers United by the chairman and proprietor of Ottasolo Football… November 18, 2020 In "Sports"