  US Democrats plan to introduce an article of impeachment against President Donald Trump for his role in Wednesday’s invasion of the US Capitol. House Speaker Nancy Pelosi said she would move forward with impeachment if Trump did not resign immediately.  The charge of ‘incitement of insurrection’ is set to be introduced by House Democrats on Monday.  They accused Trump of encouraging a riot in Congress in which five people died. President-elect Joe Biden said impeachment was for Congress to decide, but said he had thought for a long time President Trump was not fit to hold the job.  The White House dismissed the impeachment as a ‘politically motivated’ move that would ‘only serve to further divide our great country.’  Nearly 160 House of Representatives Democrats have signed on to the bill, which congressman Ted Lieu of California and David Cicilline of Rhode Island began drafting while they were sheltering in place during Wednesday’s chaos at the Capitol. If the process does go ahead, it would be the second time the House has pursued impeachment against President Trump.   Fifty-seven percent of Americans want Republican President Donald Trump to be immediately removed from office after he encouraged a protest this week that escalated into a deadly riot inside the U.S. Capitol, according to a Reuters/Ipsos poll. Most of them were Democrats, however, with Republicans apparently much more supportive… January 9, 2021 In "News" Pelosi: We’ll impeach President lKey aides resign Facebook, Twitter slam indefinite ban on his accounts President Donald Trump appears to have landed in big trouble and risks removal from office following Wednesday's invasion of the Capitol by thousands of his supporters. The mob, some of whom were reportedly armed, breached… January 8, 2021 In "News" US President Donald Trump has been recorded telling Georgia's top election official to "find" enough votes to overturn the election result. "I just want to find 11,780 votes," Mr Trump told Republican Secretary of State Brad Raffensperger in a recording released by the Washington Post. Raffensperger is heard replying that… January 3, 2021 In "News"