Four people have died while 56 others were hospitalised as a result of the outbreak of diarrhea, occasioned by water contamination in Sokoto, Sokoto State. The state Commissioner for Health, Dr. Ali Inname, attributed the incident to the drinking of contaminated water by people in the affected settlement. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the incident occurred at Helele in Sokoto North Local Government Area of Sokoto metropolis. Inname, however, said the state government had contained the spread of the disease. He said that the survivors had been placed on treatment at Helele and Kofar Rini Primary Healthcare Centres as well as Sokoto Specialist Hospital. The commissioner blamed the water contamination on illegal connection of water pipes and poor sewage system in Helele community He advised members of the community to desist from indiscriminate refuse dump and ensure good hygiene. The commissioner added that government would henceforth punish defaulters in order to restore sanity to the area. Inname said investigation was still ongoing to unravel the source of the contamination. He added that residents were also being sensitised to the dangers of using such water. Governor Aminu Tambuwal had on Tuesday, expressed sadness over the incident and condoled with the families and relations of those who lost their lives to the disease. Tambuwal also constituted a committee of experts, headed by the Commissioners of Health and Environment, to investigate the source of the disease and find its cure and prevention. The governor said that the state government had taken responsibility for the treatment of the victims, wished them quick recovery and safe return to their families and loved ones. He urged residents of the affected area to remain calm and to ensure good sanitation and hygiene in order to prevent the disease from spreading.   The Sokoto State government yesterday said it would give automatic employment to new graduates of the state College of Nursing.   The state government recently received 125 qualified nurses through the Commissioner for Health, Dr. Muhammad Ali Inname, at the Ministry of Health, Sokoto.   Inname congratulated the new graduates… January 13, 2021 In "News" The Sokoto State government yesterday said that the newly launched contributory health scheme in the state is targeting 20 per cent of its residents by 2021. Commissioner for Health in the state, Dr. Muhammed Ali Inname, said this in Sokoto to commemorate this year’s Universal Health Coverage.   The commissioner… December 24, 2020 In "News" Sokoto State government has flagged off the enrollment of intended beneficiaries for Basic Health care provision funds at Primary Health care centre Gagi, Sokoto South local Government. It is also expected to reach over 100 million Nigerians in rural based areas, especially womenandchildrenunder- fiveyears. Speaking during at the event, the… January 16, 2021 In "News"