  After spending four days in captivity, the couple who were kidnapped along Uso-Owo road were over the weekend rescued from kidnappers’ den.  The couple, Mr. and Mrs. Gbenga Ibikunke, were freed by men of the Ondo State Police Command.  The couple, who were on transit through Uso community, were last week abducted along Akure/Owo highway while their three children were left inside their car while travelling with from Ebonyi State to Akure.  The children were later rescued by police after they were found abandoned in the car. Following the development, the combined team of military personnel, Civil Defence Corps and Amotekun Corps were mobilised to comb the forest and rescue the victims.  During the rescue operation, two suspects were arrested and taken into custody even as the kidnappers demanded for N10m ransom. Ondo Police spokesman, ASP Tee-Leo Ikoro, who confirmed rescue of the couple, said they were rescued at the forest they were taken to.  “We got information about the incident and we quickly dispatched our tatical squad for a rescue mission. “We heard they were asking for N20 million ransom, but we are not interested in that.  Rather we are going after them. We rescued the couple and we are going to get the perpetrators.”  Armed men have abducted a man, his wife and one other person in Ondo State. The couple were kidnapped at Uso community in Owo Local Government Area of Ondo State on Tuesday evening while the other person, Olatunbosun Johnson (35), was abducted within the community at the weekend. The couple,… January 7, 2021 In "Metro & Crime" A couple as well one other person have been abducted by gunmen suspected to be kidnappers in Ondo State. The couple were kidnapped at Uso community in Owo Local Government Area of Ondo State on Tuesday evening while the other person, identified as Olatunbosun Johnson, was abducted within the community… January 6, 2021 In "Metro & Crime" There was palpable tension in Ondo State over the weekend following the abduction of 16 market women by gunmen suspected to be kidnappers.   The women who were on transit from Akoko axis of the State to Akure, the state capital for the monthly meeting of leadership of the market… November 8, 2020 In "News"