 Britain is concerned about the spread of COVID-19 in supermarkets and particularly people breaching rules by not wearing masks while shopping in them, Minister for COVID Vaccine Deployment Nadhim Zahawi said on Monday.
“We are concerned that, for example, in supermarkets we need to make sure people actually wear masks and follow the one-way system, and when they are at capacity to operate safely, people wait outside,” he told Sky News.
But Zahawi stopped short of saying enforcement of the rules should be the responsibility of the supermarkets rather than individuals.
“Our plea is to everybody, each and everyone of us. These rules are not boundaries to be pushed against. These rules are there to try and make sure we bring this virus under control,” he said.
“The most important thing to do now is to make sure that… compliance with the rules when people are going into supermarkets are being adhered to.”
Zahawi also praised supermarkets for doing “a tremendous job” in serving their communities and offering facilities for the vaccination roll-out.  Worried about the mutated strain of COVID-19 manifesting itself in the United Kingdom, the Federal Government may impose a travel ban to and from certain parts of the world.   Minister of Information and Culture, Alhaji Lai Mohammed, disclosed this yesterday in Abuja at a Special Forum of the News… December 22, 2020 In "News" The Federal Government has explained why it has not imposed travel ban, particularly to and from the United Kingdom, over the mutated strain of COVID-19. The government said it will require the concurrence of neighbouring countries for the ban to be effective. Minister of Information and Culture, Alhaji Lai Mohammed,… December 23, 2020 In "News" Forty-eight hours after the Federal Government imposed multiple restrictions on social activities across Nigeria over the next five weeks, some states and the Federal Capital Territory (FCT) have announced similar measures to reduce human contact and curtail the spread of the second wave of Coronavirus (COVID- 19) in their respective… December 24, 2020 In "News"