Telecommunications group, MTN, said it has donated $25 million to support the African Union’s COVID-19 vaccination programme. The donation, the group said, would help secure up to seven million doses of the COVID-19 vaccine for health workers across the continent, which would contribute to the vaccination initiative of the Africa Centre for Disease Control and Prevention (Africa CDC). “The devastating impact of COVID-19 has been unprecedented and profound. Public and private partnerships are needed if we are to succeed in the fight against the pandemic and restore social and economic norms for our continent and our communities,” President and Chief Executive Officer of MTN Group, Ralph Mupita, said in a statement released yesterday. Chairperson of the African Union, President Cyril Ramaphosa, had, on 14 January 2021, announced that the African Union had secured a provisional 270 million COVID-19 vaccine doses on behalf of its member states, through advance procurement commitment guarantees of up to $2 billion to the manufacturers by the African Export-Import Bank. “This was an important milestone in efforts to ensure equitable access to the COVID-19 vaccine for Africa’s people. However, with a population of about 1.3 billion, Africa requires many more doses to achieve at least 60 per cent herd immunity. Contributions by private organisations like MTN, are, therefore, essential to help the continent reach its target. “Our goal is to ensure that all those who need the COVID-19 vaccine have access to it very quickly, but the biggest hurdle in Africa has been the financing of the vaccines, and the logistics of vaccinating at scale. We, therefore, welcome the right partnerships, like the one with MTN, to achieve our minimum 60 per cent vaccination target,” said Director of Africa CDC, Dr. John Nkengasong. Since the beginning of the pandemic, MTN has made significant contributions to help limit the spread of the disease and save lives and livelihoods within its African market. The company said this donation is another example of its efforts to help find lasting solutions to solve the challenges facing the continent and to guarantee a healthy Africa, for all Africans. “We believe ongoing collaborations with key stakeholders across sectors are essential as vaccines are deployed in all our markets, with communication tools, technology and digital services being vital support infrastructure for a successful mass vaccination programme. “In the coming months, MTN Group will look at similar support commitments for the markets in which we operate in the Middle East,” Mupita said.   The Africa Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (Africa CDC) has commended the African Export-Import Bank (Afreximbank) for filling the financial gap with regard to accessing COVID-19 vaccine across the continent.   Director of the Africa CDC, John Nkengasong, made the commendation shortly after the announcement that the African Export-Import… January 25, 2021 In "Business" Dakuku Peterside The year 2020 will forever be synonymous with Covid-19, a pandemic that brought the world to her knees. For the first time in more than a generation, the world confronts a novel coronavirus, a monstrous pestilence that defied technology and innovation. Millions of people are infected, and… December 7, 2020 In "Opinion" Inadequate supply of the required doses of the coronavirus (Covid-19) vaccines to Nigeria and other sub-Saharan African countries could derail their economic recovery prospects, analysts at United Capital have said. The analysts, who stated this in a report obtained by New Telegraph at the weekend, noted that the quantity of… January 20, 2021 In "Business"