A Pan-Yoruba summit conveyed under the aegis of Yoruba Patriots Movements has emphasised the need for improved security in South- West states to complement the efforts of the governors through the establishment of Amotekun security corps Speaking at the summit which held at the Conference Centre, University of Ibadan, with the theme; “Yoruba Nation: Yesterday, Today and Tomorrow”, various speakers identified issues and challenges facing the Yoruba race, just as they called for a united race ahead of the 2023 general elections. The event was attended by traditional leaders, political functionaries and eminent personalities as well as a cross – section of stakeholders from the South-West states In a communiqué issued at the end of the Conference, the summit resolved to demand for the prioritisation of funding for Amotekun as well as proper monitoring of the activities of the corps across the South-West to ensure the protection of the neighbourhoods, hinterlands, farms and forests The communiqué signed by Mr. Oladosu Oladipo, Babatunde Balogun, Mr. Adekunle Olayinka and Sen. Rilwan Soji Akanbi, among others, expressed support for Governor Oluwarotimi Akeredolu (SAN), in his bold and patriotic efforts to curb kidnapping and all forms of insecurity in Ondo State, thereby calling on other governors to take decisive steps to reassure the people of safety in their homelands. The summit also reiterated the position of Ondo State Government that forests across the South-West should not be turned into grazing zones, thereby encouraging groups or individuals interested in cattle business to undergo legitimate processes of acquiring lands for ranching to be operated under relevant laws and regulations as may be deemed necessary by the respective States.  Chairman of the Western Nigeria Security Network codenamed: Amotekun Corps in Oyo State, General Kunle Togun (rtd), has raised the alarm that large numbers of heavily- armed Fulani herders who are non-Nigerians have started trooping in through Saki East, Saki West and Atisbo Local Government areas of the state. He… January 15, 2021 In "News" Former Chief of Defence Staff, General Alani Akinrinade(rtd) and former Governor of Oyo State, Senator Rashidi Ladoja, will co-chair a summit of Yoruba leaders, eminent personalities and stakeholders billed for January 21 at Ibadan, Oyo State.   The summit, conveyed under the aegis of Yoruba Patriots Movement with the theme… January 17, 2021 In "News" Astheclamourforpresidency to return to the South in 2023 continues to reverberate across the country, some stakeholders haveopinedthattheambition of the National Leader of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu, may be frustrated just like that of M.K.O Abiola in 1993, if Yoruba people continue to speak in discordant… January 22, 2021 In "News"