 The Canadian province of Ontario will keep elementary schools in its southern regions closed for in-person learning until January 25, the provincial government announced on Thursday.
The decision comes as the test positivity rate for COVID-19 – or the proportion of tests that come back as positive – for children under the age of 13 in the province reaches 20%, Premier Doug Ford said earlier on Thursday.
Elementary schools had been scheduled to reopen for in-person classes on January 11, and most secondary schools were due back on January 25. Schools in northern Ontario will reopen for in-person learning on January 11.
Online learning for all students started last Monday, reports Reuters.
“One in every five children under the age of 13, they’re testing positive. That’s not mentioning all the other kids that haven’t been tested that might have a runny nose or a cough,” Ford told reporters.
“I will never ever put our kids in jeopardy,” he added.
The province reported 3,519 new cases of COVID-19 on Thursday, a record one-day spike. As of Wednesday, Canada had reported 626,799 total cases and 16,369 deaths, up 136 from the previous day.
On Wednesday, Quebec announced an 8 p.m. curfew beginning on Saturday in an attempt to limit the rapid spread of COVID-19 in the province, but in-person learning in primary schools would restart on Monday as planned.  As medical experts forecast, COVID-19, now a pandemic, will downgrade to endemism and over time, a long time, assaulted by the vaccine which the world awaits with bated breath, will fade into the background as a major health issue. Mutant strains are said to be in the works and the… July 27, 2020 In "Back Page Columnist" U.S. students are returning to school in person and online in the middle of a pandemic, and the stakes for educators and families are rising in the face of emerging research that shows children could be a risk for spreading the new coronavirus. Several large studies have shown that… August 20, 2020 In "Education" The Nigeria Centre for Disease Control (NCDC), on Tuesday, confirmed 90 new coronavirus infections in seven states and the Federal Capital Territory (FCT). In its update for September 15, 2020, the agency also recorded five new deaths, increasing the current fatality toll to 1,088. According to the breakdown, Lagos… September 16, 2020 In "News"