Governor of Rivers State, Nyesom Ezenwo Wike has said that those criticising him over the delay in the commencement of the Trana-Kalabari Road are impatient, stressing that discussions for its take-off has been concluded.  Wike, who spoke yesterday at a the reception organised for the conferment of special chieftaincy title conferment of Eze Gbuwara Uzor 1 of Ikwerre on Sir Celestine Omehia, former Rivers governor at Isiopko Town in Ikwerre Council area, noted that the Trans-Kalabari Road will ease transportation difficulties experienced by the Kwlabari people.  The governor explained that he is deliberately embarking on critical projects that address the direct needs of Rivers people, and he is determined to make the people happier than he met them on assumption of office.  The Rivers State governor said most Kalabari people had castigated his administration out of impatience, but they can see clearly that the Trans-Kalabari Road project has always been on the list of projects for construction before the end of his tenure.  He said: “I and the Deputy Governor, together with the Chairman of the Rivers State Elders Council, have agreed on how the Trans-Kalabari Road will follow. “Those who said we don’t want to do anything in the Kalabari area, today they are sending me text messages.  They are thanking me and I said to them don’t thank me because their thanking me is temporary. They are not always stable.” The governor said with several projects inaugurated in the various local government of the state, most critics who accused him of being sectional with his development programme are now ashamed and silenced.   Governor of Rivers State, Nyesom Ezenwo Wike has said that those criticising him over the delay in the commencement of the Trana-Kalabari Road are impatient, stressing that discussions for its take-off has been concluded. Wike, who spoke yesterday at a the reception organised for the conferment of special chieftaincy title… January 30, 2021 In "News" Rivers State Governor, Nyesom Wike, has disclosed that the Federal Government has refunded to the state the N78 billion it spent on federal projects in the state, stressing that the money will be spent on more critical projects to enhance the socio-economic life of Rivers people. Wike, who stated this… January 14, 2021 In "News" Rivers State Governor, Nyesom Wike, has declared his readiness to remain in the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) rather than run to the All Progressives Congress (APC).   Wike, who spoke yesterday during the inauguration of the Rumuekini/ Aluu Road, traversing Obio/Akpor and Ikwerre local government areas, performed by former Secretary… January 13, 2021 In "News"