Soldiers yesterday disclosed that they have arrested a suspected bandit, Shehu Musa, in Kaduna State.  The troops were deployed to the state to tackle the prevailing insecurity under the auspices of Operation Safe Haven.  They said the arrest was based on a tip-off, following an investigation into last December’s deadly attack at Gora Gan in Zangon Kataf Local Government Area of the state. At least seven people were killed, 13 houses were burnt while several properties were destroyed during the attack.  According to a security report made available to journalists, the suspect was trailed to a village in a neighbouring state, where he was arrested at an undisclosed hospital while receiving treatment for gunshot wounds. The report said the suspect was still in the troops’ custody as investigations continued.  Meanwhile, more bandits have been neutralised in joint ground and air patrols across Kaduna State. The state Commissioner for Internal Security and Home Affairs, Samuel Aruwan, the air platforms supported ground troops in joint patrols on Monday, as four missions were carried out across locations spanning Birnin Gwari, Giwa, Igabi and Chikun local government areas.  He said: “In the operational feedback to the Kaduna State government, Kabula, Muya and Dankwala were covered following reports that bandits with rustled cattle were sighted at these locations. “During another mission, bandits were sighted with herds of cattle just north of Gidan Audu, and were engaged with rockets.  “Similarly, ground troops reported movement of bandits with cattle at Gbakopai. They were engaged and neutralised by the fighter jet crew.  “The crew then carried out armed reconnaissance over the Kaduna-Abuja highway, with free flowing traffic and normal activities observed. Such was also the case at Rijana, Polewaya, Akilbu, Katari, Jere, Zuba and environs.”  Soldiers deployed in Kaduna State to tackle banditry under the auspices of ‘Operation Safe Haven’ have arrested two suspected bandits in the state. The arrests took place at Ungwan Wakili and Zango Urban in Zango Kataf Local Government Area of the state. The state’s Commissioner, Ministry of Internal Security and… January 23, 2021 In "News" Bandits killed at least three people in separate attacks in Kajuru and Igabi local government areas of Kaduna State.   The state Commissioner for Internal Security and Home Affairs, Samuel Aruwan, said the attacks occurred in the last 24 hours. Aruwan also disclosed that soldiers arrested two suspected bandits’ doctors.… April 20, 2021 In "Metro & Crime" Bandits killed at least 11 people in two separate attacks in Kaduna State from Tuesday till yesterday. The bandits also burnt a building belonging to the Assemblies of God Church in Ungwan Gaida. The attacks occurred in Chikun and Igabi local government areas of the state. The state Commissioner for… May 20, 2021 In "Metro & Crime"