The stage is set for the first ever Kwara State Road Race, billed for Saturday, January 23rd, 2021.  According to the Vice Chairman of the Organising Committee of the Race, Mallam Bello Mubaraq, the race is the first in the North Central and was initiated to engage youth positively.  He also said that it was introduced to discover new talents in long distance race, encourage the youth to develop a career in sporting activities and curb restiveness to guarantee development in the state.  Mallam Mubaraq, who stressed that the 18-kilometer race is purely a private partnership programme, added that it is being packaged in conjunction with the government of Kwara State.  The race is expected to kick-off by 7:00 am from Government Secondary School round-about and will terminate at the Kwara State Stadium Complex main gate.  He explained that the participants would be screened and certified by the medics after they must have registered via www. kwaramarathon.gov.org at the rate of N2,000 only, noting that the organisers have received huge support from the major stakeholders, particularly Kwara State Athletics Association, towards a hitch free exercise.   The maiden Ogbomosho 10km Road Race will now hold on Saturday November 28, 2020, according to organisers of the race.   The first road race to be held in the ancient city was originally scheduled to hold last May but had to be shifted due to the nationwide lockdown occasioned… August 18, 2020 In "Sports" Youth and Sports Development Minister, Sunday Dare, will flag off the maiden edition of the Ogbomosoland marathon race on Saturday November 28,2020 in Ogbomosho, according to organisers of the race. “The Honourable Minister who is a proud son of Ogbomoso will flag off the historic race at the start off… October 16, 2020 In "Sports" His first one year in office has rightly been adjudged one of the best among first-term governors of Nigeria. His heavy investments in healthcare, road network, provision of potable water, workers’ welfare, his incredibly simple but impactful approach to governance, and his relationship with the masses have earned him accolades… August 12, 2020 In "Opinion"