  US actress Jane Fonda is to be honoured with a lifetime achievement award at next month’s Golden Globes, which celebrate excellence in film and TV.
“Her undeniable talent has gained her the highest level of recognition,” said the Hollywood Foreign Press Association (HFPA) – the ceremony’s organiser.
“While her professional life has taken many turns, her unwavering commitment to evoking change has remained.”
Fonda, 83, has had a glittering acting career spanning six decades, the BBC reports.
The HFPA said she would be given the Cecil B deMille Award at the annual ceremony in Beverly Hills, California, on February 28.
The Oscar-winning actress made her debut in 1960, later becoming one of the brightest Hollywood stars with films like Barbarella, Nine to Five and On Golden Pond.
Her most recent performance was in the Netflix comedy series Grace and Frankie.
Fonda is also well known as a political activist, most recently as a campaigner against climate change. In 2016, she spent Thanksgiving among the protesters at Standing Rock, demonstrating against the construction of the Dakota Access Pipeline.
In the 1960s she vocally opposed the Vietnam War.
The actress – who has written a book about how people can get involved in such activism – has been arrested several times during protests, and hopes her actions have raised awareness.  Melanie Dupuis and her husband, Dave, have made a name for themselves in the real estate industry and are unique in the fact that they do not have any joint venture; all of their properties are only owned by the power couple.     Narrating how the… September 11, 2020 In "Business" Italian composer Ennio Morricone, who created the coyote-howl theme for the iconic Spaghetti Western “The Good, the Bad and the Ugly” and the soundtracks such classic Hollywood gangster movies as “The Untouchables,” has died. He was 91. Morricone’s longtime lawyer, Giorgio Assumma, said the Maestro, as he was known,… July 6, 2020 In "Arts & Entertainments" Nollywood actress, Uche Ogbodo is over the mood as her only daughter, Mildred Chinagorom Ogbodo recently turned 6 on 29 July, 2020. To celebrate the birthday girl, the actress unveiled lovely photos of herself and Mildred.   Sharing her prayers for her little princess with Sunday Telegraph, Ogbodo said that… August 2, 2020 In "Body & Soul"