Exports by third-party non-African countries to African countries will not enjoy preferential treatments stipulated under the African Continental Free Trade Area (AfCFTA) pact. This is according to the Secretary-General of the AfCFTA Secretariat, Wamkele Mene.  Addressing the issue of trans-shipment during the operation of AfCFTA, at a press conference at the weekend, Mene noted that although goods from non- African countries would be welcome into the continent, such goods or imports will, however, not enjoy the incentives that bind the trade agreement between AfCFTA members.  “We are not saying there should be no goods from other countries, what we are saying is that goods that should enjoy the AfCFTA preferential treatment should be goods that are legitimately entitled to the AfCFTA preferential treatment,” he said.  “There will still be goods coming in from other parts of the world, but they will not be enjoying the preferential treatment that we have agreed to extend to ourselves as members of AfCFTA,” he added. Speaking further, he disclosed that no provision or protocol had yet been made to minimise the importation of goods from non-African countries during the implementation of AfCFTA.  He, however, believes that despite the absence of such provision, a strong collaboration between customs officials of member countries will check goods transshipment on the continent during the operation of AfCFTA. “This will depend on our robust application and implementation of our rules of origin regime and other necessary protocols.  We will work with our Customs Officials to improve their capacity to check transshipment,” he stated.  Trading of goods between member countries per the rules of AfCFTA should attract zero duties with no limit on the quantity of goods that can be exported or imported between member countries  Recently, the Secretary- General of the African Continental Free Trade Area (AfCFTA), Wamkele Mene, paid a visit to Nigeria, where he met with the Federal Government and members of the organised private sector on the country’s preparedness for the January 1, 2021 take-off date. Taiwo Hassan reports As Africa targets… October 8, 2020 In "Business" Secretary-General of the African Continental Free Trade Area (AfCFTA) Secretariat, Mr. Wamkele Mene, has said that the successful implementation of the free trade pact will be a game-changer for the continent.   According to him, the reduced tariff regime under the AfCFTA will enable traders, exporters, and Small and… January 13, 2021 In "Business" The Executive Chairman/ CEO, BUA Group, Abdul Samad Rabiu, has expressed excitement and readiness to work towards the implementation and success of the Africa Continental Free Trade Area agreement, which when fully operational, will transform the African economy and enhance development across the continent. Abdul Samad Rabiu expressed this view… September 25, 2020 In "News"