 Yaba College of Technology (Yabatech) has announced the death of the College’s Director, Academic Planning Unit, Mr. M.A.O Omoighe, from COVID-19 complications.
It also ordered all students to vacate the hotels latest Thursday, January 28, 2021.
The medical centre was also shut for two weeks while those who may have had direct contacts with the deceased were told to undergo COVID-19 test and proceed on self-isolation.
The institution also instructed lecturers to resort to online teaching immediately.
The recommendations of the academic board read: “The College should resort to online teaching immediately, for smooth lecturing, lecturers should provide lecture notes to students beforehand and utilise the online period for explanations of the lecture notes, lecturers are to adopt acceptable modality for the online lecturing.
“The Centre for Information Technology and Management (CITM) and the Flexible Skill Development (FSD) should work out improved modalities to enhance e-learning in the college.
“Any meeting of more than 10 persons should be held virtually. Students should vacate the hotels latest Thursday, January 28, 2021. Management will make arrangements to decontaminate the college in due course. This will be done on weekends. Offices are to operate at half capacity.
“All administrative staff should come to the office on alternate days. Any staff that manifests malaria symptoms should self-isolate immediately for two weeks and go for COVID-19 test.
“The academic planning unit should be closed down for two weeks. All staff of the unit should go on isolation and carry out COVID-19 test. The unit should be de-decontaminated before reopening.
“The medical Centre should be closed for two weeks and thereafter disinfected and staff that had direct contacts with the deceased should self-isolate and carry out COVID-19 test.”  In response to the compulsory closure of institutions of learning as part of measures aimed at curbing the spread of COVID-19 in Nigeria, efforts were made to keep students busy with academic activities during the lockdown. Thus, schools, especially privately owned universities, engaged students in different kinds of online learning… August 28, 2020 In "Opinion" Prof. ‘Lanre Fagbohun, the Vice-Chancellor of the Lagos State University (LASU) speaks in an interview on EKO 89.7 FM about the readiness to reopen the institution closed down in March along with other educational institutions in the country by the Federal Government due to the outbreak of Coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic.… September 8, 2020 In "Education" Kebbi State University of Science and Technology Aliero at the weekend announced October 5, 2020, as the resumption date for the continuation of the first semester of the 2019/2020 academic calendar.   In a statement issued to newsmen yesterday and signed by the Director, Academic Planning, Dr. Abubakar Yakubu, the… October 5, 2020 In "News"