Jigawa Golden Stars forward, Abdullahi Musa Lala has said the team’s target in the on-going Nigeria Professional Football League (NPFL) campaign was to finish in the top four.  The Dutse-based outfit won their first league game against Sunshine Stars by 1-0 but lost their second game against Dakkada FC 2-1 last Sunday in Uyo to stand seventh on the log. Yet Lala said the team has all it takes to compete among the big clubs in the NPFL, stressing he and his colleagues are poised to secure a continental ticket.  “My expectations this season is to be in the top four; so that we can be among the clubs that will play in the CAF competitions next season,” Lala said.  The former YSFON product has in the meantime; set his sights on registering his name on the scorer’s sheet when Jigawa play host to Rangers International on Matchday Three on Sunday at the Ahmadu Bello Stadium, Kaduna. “We just want to take that points and I hope to be one of the goal scorers for my team by God’s grace,” he affirmed.  The season resumed a fortnight ago after a nine-month break due to COVID-19 but the 2012 Nigeria national League (NNL) highest goal scorer said the NPFL has not been the same without fans.  The Kaduna-born star started his top flight football career at Katsina United in the 2017/18 season after helping the team gain promotion to the elite division in the 2016/2017 season.   It was another defeat for former Super Eagles coach, Imama Amapakabo, as his Abia Warriors lost their third consecutive game in the three-week old Nigeria Professional Football League (NPFL).   The former Rangers coach joined the Umuahia side ahead of the new campaign but things have not really been going… January 10, 2021 In "Sports" Rangers International F.C Coach, Salisu Yusuf, has signed a two-year deal with the Enugu club side. The former Super Eagles coach said after signing the deal that even though his target for the season is to emerge champions of the league again, he nonetheless, respects every team in the NPFL.… December 4, 2020 In "Sports" Heartland FC of Owerri on Sunday suffered another loss in the ongoing Nigeria Professional Football League making it the second over one week. The 2020/2021 NPFL season kicked off on December 27, 2020, with Heartland suffering a 3-2 loss against Katsina United while also succumbing to a 2-1 home loss… January 4, 2021 In "Sports"