Troops have killed about 50 suspected bandits during a fierce encounter at Kuriya village in Kaura Namoda Local Government Area of Zamfara State. The Defence Headquarters (DHQ) said the encounter, which occurred on Saturday, January 9, was a product of actionable intelligence.  The Coordinator, Defence Media Operations (DMO), Maj-Gen. John Enenche, said in a statement that the surface troops were provided close air support during the battle. Enenche added that four soldiers, who were wounded during the gun battle, were receiving treatment at a military facility.  He said: “In continuation of aggressive clearance operation to stamp out banditry in the North West Zone, troops of Operation Hadarin Daji yesterday, 9 January 2021 successfully neutralised several bandits in Kuriya village of Kaura Namoda Local Government Area of Zamfara State. “Following actionable intelligence, the gallant troops with close air support by the Air Component, made contact with bandits at Kuriya village.”  Enenche explained that in the course of the encounter, several bandits were killed in action while four soldiers sustained injuries. He added: “Human intelligence confirmed that no fewer than 50 bandits were killed in the encounter. Equally, troops recovered 272 livestock from the bandits.  “Troops deployed at Dunya village of Danmusa Local Government Area of Katsina State, while on routine patrol, recovered 62 livestock from bandits, who fled into the bush on sighting troops. “Currently, the gallant troops have continued to dominate the theatre of operation with aggressive patrols to deny criminals freedom of action.”  The gallantry of the troops, the DMO’s coordinator noted, had earned them the commendation of the military high command, who further encouraged them to stay the course until normalcy was restored to all trouble zones of the country.   The Defence Headquarters says troops of Operation Accord have arrested 11 illegal miners and eliminated scores of bandits on Saturday, November 21 in parts of Zamfara and Katsina States. The Coordinator, Defence Media Operations, Maj.-Gen. John Enenche, in a statement on Monday, said the troops continued to record successes… November 23, 2020 In "News" Ortom beefs up security He was killed during encounter -DHQ Tension yesterday enveloped communities in Benue State especially at Gbise in Katsina-Ala over the killing of wanted notorious criminal gang leader, Terwase Akwaza alias Gana. Gana, who was killed by men of the Nigerian Army on Tuesday, hailed from Gbise.… September 11, 2020 In "Metro & Crime" The Defence Headquarters (DHQ), Thursday, said there was a decline in banditry, kidnapping and other criminal activities in the North West, as troops intensified clearance operations in the zone. This was as the military further noted that operations across the various theatres were being revved up, with a view to… November 5, 2020 In "News"