Super Eagles Manager Gernot Rohr has been warned to slow down on his approach on populating the national team with players who were born or grew up abroad.  Football ambassador John Fashanu and ex-international Ifeanyi Udeze agreed in their opinions that over reliance on players born abroad is not only affecting the Super Eagles but slows down the pace of local football development.   Fashanu said it is important that Coach Rohr looks in the way of players in the local league saying a few of them should be considered for national assignment.  “We need to look at our players at home; we have to give them the chance so that they will not go and go down again. Foreign players are also Nigerians but we have to develop these ones at home too by giving them the chance,” he said.
Udeze does not have problem with having foreign-born players in the Super Eagles but frowns at having them dominate the squad.  He said that African football is different from Europe and when it comes to the crunches the African mentality will have to pay the huge part in the success of the team.  “There is no problem if we have one, two or three players from Europe in the team; after a while they will blend with those who grew up playing here. But the coach must desist from relying entirely on those players who are born abroad for his selection; this is not what we used to have in the past, we have to find a way of developing our own,” he said.   Ex-international Felix Owolabi has told Super Eagles Manager Gernot Rohr to stop experimenting with his team, saying the coach should have formed the fulcrum of his side more than four years after he took over. Rohr was appointed as Eagles helmsman in 2016 and Owolabi said more than four years… October 28, 2020 In "Sports" Charles Ogundiya Ex-international, Ifeanyi Udeze, has advised Super Eagles coach, Gernot Rohr, to make newly appointed national team assistant coach, Joseph Yobo, the defensive trainer for the team.   While commending the Nigeria Football Federation for the appointment, Udeze said the appointment has shown former internationals that the country would… July 6, 2020 In "Sports" AJIBADE OLUSESAN writes that Nigeria is fast losing her relevance in age-grade competitions both in Africa and on the world stage following poor performances of the various junior national teams in recent years. It is established that egg-heads at the Nigeria Football Federation aren’t quite worried about the trend because… January 9, 2021 In "Sports"