The Nigerian Police Force over the weekend made history by winning the 4th edition of the One Service, One Medal Games held in Abuja by amassing 71 gold, 50 silver and 31 bronze,  The National Security and Civil Defence Corps emerged second with 48 gold, 31 silver and 25 bronze, Federal Fire Service were third with 8 gold, 9 silver and 9 bronze medals.  The Federal Road Safety Corps finished in the fourth position with 3 gold, 6 silver and 2 bronze. Nigerian Correctional Service secured 2 gold, 2 silver 4 bronze. Nigerian Navy had 2 gold, 8 silver and 18 bronze.  The Nigerian Custom brought up the rear with a miserly 1 gold, 3 silver and one bronze. Minister of Youth and Sports Development Mr Sunday Dare expressed delight that the event eventually took place despite all the challenges occasioned by the covid-19 lockdown which led to the cancellation of many sports events.  He equally expressed satisfaction over the high standard, discipline and commitment exhibited by the athletes in line with laid down rules and regulations   The Nigerian Ports Authority Sports team "The Hadiza Warriors" have in Kano retained the overall winner’s trophy which they won at the last edition of the Federation of Public Service Games (FEPSGA), which held in 2019 in Lafia, Nasarawa State.   NPA won the 39th edition of the FEPSGA games… December 27, 2020 In "Sports" The Olympic Games remain the best yardstick to evaluate athletes and countries worldwide. It comes up every four years and it is regarded as the biggest assemblage of people in a particular place for same event. As Nigeria celebrates 60th Independence, it is important to state that athletics has been… October 8, 2020 In "Editorial" Before Nigeria’s independence in 1960, Dick Tiger and Hogan Kid Bassey won the world Middleweight Boxing Championship belt and the World Featherweight boxing championship belt respectively but Nojeem Maiyegun’s bronze medal at the 1964 Olympic Games in Tokyo was historic for Nigeria. It gave other athletes generally the belief that… October 3, 2020 In "Sports"