The Federal Government has debunked a report in a national daily, linking some officials of the Embassy of Nigeria in France with alleged passport racketeering.  Spokesman of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Mr. Ferdinand Nwonye, who took strong exception to the allegations, said that the Embassy of Nigeria in France was not engaged in such a despicable act.  In an official statement issued on Saturday, Nwonye said that the allegation that applicants pay between 150- 500 Euros for passports that cost 90 Euros was completely false.  “The fees for passport applications, which is the equivalent of 106 USD, are the same at Nigerian Missions worldwide. The information on the current charges and official procedure for services at the Embassy are well publicised.  “Furthermore, the embassy’s current online appointment system for applicants seeking passport and consular services was introduced over a year ago to promote transparency, streamline applications and ensure crowd control.  In line with current regulations, Nigerians are expected to book for their appointments through this medium and only those with confirmed appointments are attended to.  “The Ministry wishes to inform that the embassy has not engaged any agent or third party individuals to liaise with Nigerians when seeking appointments for its services and no one is expected to pay any hidden charges for services rendered at the Embassy,” he said  Nwonye therefore advised Nigerians in France to avoid dealing with anyone outside the embassy or engaging in any unofficial procedure when applying for passport or any other consular services.  •Officials engage third party to perpetrate fraud •Applicants pay between 150 and 500 euros for passports that normally cost 90 euros •We can’t comment as matter hasn’t been reported to us –Ministry of Foreign Affairs The Nigerian Embassy in France is currently hit by passport racketeering, following applicants' claim of… January 9, 2021 In "News" Nigeria’s Foreign Missions ought to be a bastion and second home to citizens in the Diaspora, but the reverse is the case. From the United States to Germany, Canada, United Kingdom and Malaysia, it is tales of woes, disappointment, corruption, ill-treatment and poor services rendered to Nigerians by foreign missions.… December 31, 2020 In "Politics" The Nigerian Ambassador to Germany, Hon. Yusuf Maitama Tuggar, has revealed that the coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic was mainly responsible for the difficulties being experienced by Nigerians seeking to renew their passports or apply for the issuance of new ones at the Embassy. The ambassador, who made the remarks at a… September 26, 2020 In "Feature"