…Directs civil servants to stay at home Muhammad Kabir, Kano The Kano State government has announced the imposition of a fresh ban on the activities of viewing and event centres across the state following increasing COVID-19 cases.
The state’s Commissioner for Information, Malam Muhammad Garba, who made the revelation in a statement Tuesday morning, said the measure was part of the decisions made at a stakeholders meeting, which held at the Africa House, Kano on Monday.
He said that all civil servants in the state have also been directed to stay at home pending further instructions.
Malam Garba, however, explained that workers in essential services, such as the healthcare service providers, fire service, water board, teaching staff, security guards and the media, are exempted from the stay at home order.
The commissioner reaffirmed government’s commitment to working with relevant stakeholders, that included the Ulama, to ensuring compliance with the COVID-19 safety protocols.
Kano had 26 new coronavirus cases according to the latest figures released by the Nigeria Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) on Monday night.  S ince the outbreak of the COVID-19 pandemic, all states of the federation and indeed the entire world had been jolted, to take preventive measures and reduce fatalities. In Kano State, the situation was not any different, as Governor Dr. Abdullahi Umar Ganduje’s foresight and pragmatic approach have seriously helped… June 21, 2020 In "Politics" Forty-eight hours after the Federal Government imposed multiple restrictions on social activities across Nigeria over the next five weeks, some states and the Federal Capital Territory (FCT) have announced similar measures to reduce human contact and curtail the spread of the second wave of Coronavirus (COVID- 19) in their respective… December 24, 2020 In "News" I read with aversion a sickening and dainty piece, published on an online platform, titled: “Kano: As Governor Ganduje keeps misplacing priorities,” which was authored by Hon. Umar Haruna Ado Doguwa, the sacked chairman of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Kano State and one of the chieftains in the… June 26, 2020 In "Opinion"