Babatope Okeowo, Akure The crisis rocking the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in Ondo State deepened at the weekend as some leaders of the party dissociated themselves from the suspension of some members of the party.
The party had suspended some members of the party, including the Minority Leader of the House of Assembly, Hon. Rasheed Elegbeleye, for alleged anti-party activities. The grouse of the party members, which suspended Elegbeleye, Ayo Fadaka and others, was the visit of some party leaders to a former Governor of Ekiti State, Mr Ayodele Fayose at his Lagos State resident.
However, leaders from Akoko Northeast Local Government chapter of the party said the party was on its own over the suspension of Elegbeleye and others.
At a meeting attended by leaders of the party from all the political wards in the local government, they said they were not carried along before such decision to suspend their representative in the Assembly was taken.
In a statement by the leaders, which included the Chairman, Ayelumo Peter, Deputy Chairman Salisu Jimoh and Secretary; Aderinboye Samuel, they accused the State Executive of the party of taking a unilateral decision.  The supremacy battle between Governor Seyi Makinde of Oyo State and a former governor of Ekiti State, Ayo Fayose, is compounding the chances of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in the South- West geopolitical zone ahead of the 2022 governorship election in Ekiti State and the 2023 general election, ANAYO… January 7, 2021 In "Politics" The crisis rocking the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in the South West took another turn yesterday following the suspension of some stalwarts of the Ondo State chapter of the party. The affected chieftains of the party who were suspended indefinitely over alleged anti-party activities included the former Chairman of the… December 23, 2020 In "News" Following the battle for leadership supremacy within the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in the South-West, ADEWALE MOMOH x-rays the how the crisis has polarised that party in the region and possible effects on its fortunes There seems to be no end in sight to the crisis rocking the South West… January 3, 2021 In "Politics"