 Dr. Dre says he will be “back home soon” after the music mogul received medical treatment at a Los Angeles hospital for a reported brain aneurysm.
The rapper and producer said in a social media post Tuesday night that he’s thankful for the “well wishes.” TMZ reported that he suffered a brain aneurysm Monday and was recovering at Cedars-Sinai Medical Center, reports The Associated Press.
“I’m doing great and getting excellent care from my medical team,” he said. “I will be out of the hospital and back home soon. Shout out to all the great medical professionals at Cedars. One Love!!”
His representative has not immediately responded to an email.
Several music artists and athletes paid tribute to Dre on social media on Tuesday. Ice Cube, Snoop Dogg and LeBron James offered prayers toward Dre’s recovery.
Dre, whose real name is Andre Young, has produced hits for Tupac, Snoop Dogg, Eminem and more. He’s won six Grammys.
Born in the Southern California city of Compton, he broke out on the music scene as a co-founding member of N.W.A., producing the group’s groundbreaking 1988 debut album, “Straight Outta Compton.”
Dre produced his own hits and multiplatinum albums, along with crafting music for many others including Kendrick Lamar, 50 Cent, Jay-Z, Nas, Busta Rhymes, the Game and Anderson .Paak. He also found success outside of the rap genre, producing pop hits for Gwen Stefani and Mary J. Blige.
Dre founded Beats Electronics in 2008 with Jimmy Iovine and six years later they launched a streaming subscription service, Beats Music. Apple acquired both in a $3 billion deal in 2014.  Donald Trump has left hospital after being treated for coronavirus. He is now back at the White House after being flown there by helicopter, reports Sky News. Shortly before leaving the Walter Reed National Military Medical Centre in Bethesda, Maryland he tweeted: "Will be back on the Campaign Trail… October 5, 2020 In "Top Stories" Sequel to the confirmation of the index case of COVID-19 in Nigeria in February, 2020, no doubt, the pandemic is becoming overwhelming in the country as states strive to meet up with its attendant challenges. ADEWALE MOMOH writes on the situation in Ondo State with the continued increase of confirmed… July 8, 2020 In "City Life" Consultants, nurses take over duties at Abeokuta FMC   No going back, say doctors     Effects of the strike declared by the National Association of Resident Doctors (NARD) yesterday revibrated across the country. The Lagos State University Teaching Hospital (LASUTH) was deserted on the second day of the strike… September 9, 2020 In "Metro & Crime"