  Newcastle United’s record signing Joelinton faces disciplinary action after he appeared to breach COVID-19 regulations by getting a haircut.
The 24-year-old Brazilian striker put up a picture of himself in a barber shop on Instagram before quickly deleting the post.
Britain, which has Europe’s highest COVID-19 death toll, has been under national lockdown since Jan. 5 as it battles a highly contagious new coronavirus variant, with salons and other non-essential businesses shut, reports Reuters.
“We are disappointed by the image shared by Joelinton,” a club spokesperson was quoted as saying by British media.
“There are clear COVID-19 protocols in place and the club continues to guide and educate its players on their responsibilities.
“The club will be taking appropriate action internally.”
Newcastle were the first Premier League side to be hit by a coronavirus outbreak earlier this season, leading to their training ground being shut down for 10 days.
Joelinton, who arrived at Newcastle for 40 million pounds ($54.84 million) from Hoffenheim in July 2019, has failed to justify his price tag, scoring just seven goals in 66 games in all competitions.
Newcastle, who have dropped to 16th in the table following a run of five successive league defeats, travel to Everton later on Saturday.  *As Newcastle damage Sheffield’s European ambitions Chelsea boosted their hopes of Champions League football next season by coming from a goal down on their return to Premier League action to beat Aston Villa 2-1 at Villa Park. After dominating the majority of the first half, Frank Lampard's side found themselves… June 21, 2020 In "Sports" ...Newcastle damage Sheffield’s European ambitions Everton and Liverpool played out a tepid goalless draw on their return to Premier League action at Goodison Park, putting a dent in the visitors' title charge.   Liverpool went into the game needing six more points to clinch their first Premier League title but… June 21, 2020 In "Sports" ...as COVID-19 stops Fulham's game with Spurs Newcastle United held Liverpool to a goalless Premier League draw at St James' Park to ease the pressure on boss Steve Bruce. Liverpool's Mohamed Salah missed two key opportunities either side of half-time while United's Fabian Schar denied Sadio Mane a tap-in with… December 30, 2020 In "Sports"