Chairman of Nigeria Football Supporters Club (NFSC), Rev Sam Ikpea has described those lined up for the maiden Sportsville award which holds January 30 in Lagos as credible people who have done well for sports in the country.  Ikpea in a statement made available to the media in Lagos said the duo of Governor Nyesom Wike of Rivers state and Edo State deputy governor Rt Hon Philip Shaibu have ensured sports get adequate attention in their respective states.  “You can’t talk about sports in Nigeria without mentioning Rivers and Edo state,” Ikpea stated.  He was quick to add, “Dr Rauf Ladipo has sacrificed everything for Nigerian football over the years…Anyansi Agwu of Enyimba has been hugely successful with Enyimba. Ebi Egbe, the CEO of Monimichelle has on his part been on a mission to change the face of Nigerian football facilities. Sportsville has a line up of credible sports people it intends to honor,” Ikpea concluded.  The maiden Sportsville award would hold at the Ibis Royal hotel in Lagos. All the awardees have expressed joy over the award, with the Edo state deputy governor assuring that he would personally be in Lagos for the event.  The ten awardees are, Rivers state governor His Excellency Nyesom Wike (POS), Edo state deputy governor, Rt Hon Philip Shaibu, President of Nigeria Football Federation, Amaju Melvin Pinnick, NBBF boss, Engr Musa Kida, NOC president, Engr Habu Gumel, NWFL chairperson, Aisha Falode, Enyimba chairman, Felix Anyansi Agwu, and the CEO of Monimichelle Group Mr Ebi Egbe, veteran sports journalist cum media icon, Dr Larry Izamoje of Brilla FM and Super Eagles number one supporter, Dr Rauf Ladipo.   Permanent Secretary, Rivers State Ministry of Sports, Honour Sirawoo, has assured that the COVID-19 guidelines will be strictly followed during the second edition of the Governor Wike Pre-Season Tourney. He said this during a telephone conversation with SportsVille at the weekend. According to him the safety COVID-19 protocols will be… October 27, 2020 In "Sports" …promises to end godfatherism …vote, stay, protect your mandate, Obi, Tambuwal,Okowa, Wike, others urge Edo electorate The Edo State Governor and candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in the September 19 governorship election, Godwin Obaseki, yesterday declared that with the support of Edo people and endorsements by over 100… September 16, 2020 In "News" Bragging rights is a key component in sports all over the world. Athletes in various disciplines strive to achieve excellence to boost their rating which is a pride for them and the country as a whole. We believe bragging rights is more prevalent in football at club and national team… November 20, 2020 In "Editorial"