 Government officials have promised disgruntled owners that any residential locations used to quarantine hundreds of Australian Open players will be as safe against coronavirus.
The Westin Melbourne in Collins Street has been identified as one of the hotels slated to host the world’s premier players and their entourages for the mandatory 14-day quarantine period from January 17-31, reports The Guardian.
But Open officials, having already arranged chartered flights from around the world to bring the players to Australia for the season’s first grand slam, now face another major challenge following reports that some 36 owners are planning legal action.
The apartment owners at the exclusive Westin hotel claim the influx of tennis players from around the globe poses an unacceptable health risk to them and the broader community.
“My instructions are to get an injunction. So at this stage, that’s where we’re going,” the owners’ lawyer Graeme Efron told Reuters.
Efron said the Westin had informed the owners on Christmas Eve about the quarantine plans and presented it as a “done deal”.
“No one has told us that this has been mandated by a government authority to turn a partly residential city hotel into a quarantine hotel,” he said.
Owners, who include some of the country’s top business people, said they felt “ambushed” by the quarantine plan.  Australian Open tournament director Craig Tiley has moved to allay fears the season-opening tennis grand slam and its buildup tournaments could be hampered by strict biosecurity protocols to curb the spread of the novel coronavirus. Tiley said on Sunday that Tennis Australia was still "doing everything we can… November 22, 2020 In "Sports" Australia's second most populous city began a six-week lockdown on Thursday following a spike in new coronavirus cases, as states around the country tightened internal borders to prevent a second wave sweeping the country. Australia has avoided the high casualty numbers of other countries to the COVID-19 pandemic, which… July 9, 2020 In "News" The Australian Open will start on February 8 next year after being pushed back three weeks because of the coronavirus pandemic. The first Grand Slam of the 2021 season was scheduled to take place in Melbourne from January 18-31, reports the BBC. The four-day qualifying event has been moved to… December 17, 2020 In "Sports"