The Federal Government has linked spiral increase in cement price to the #EndSARS protest, Covid-19 Pandemic and downtimes experienced by some manufacturing plants. The development, government said, caused a dwindling fortune of cement, thus causing decrease in stock volume and triggered increase in prices. Permanent Secretary in the Ministry of Industry, Trade and Investment, Nasir Sani- Gwarzo, advanced the reasons in a signed he statement yesterday. The price of bag of cement witnessed consistent rise from N2,400 and N2,500 as of September 2020 to an all-time high of N4,000 in December 2020. The permanent Secretary, however, admonished the general public against panic buying of the product, assuring Nigerians that, the ministry was working on ways to achieve price reduction. He said the Ministry has been working assiduously to engage all the relevant stakeholders in the cement manufacturing sector to address the lingering situation. The Permanent Secretary further noted that there has been a massive build-up of demand from public works contractors as they are in a hurry to meet milestones and deadlines on projects across the country. To address the situation, he said the Minister of Industry, Trade and Investment, Adeniyi Adebayo, would be engaging with relevant stakeholders in the cement industry with a view to meeting the increased demand of the commodity.   The Gambia seeks technical assistance from Nigeria   Abdulwahab Isa Abuja   Federal Government realised gross collection of over N19 trillion from implementation of Treasury Single Account (TSA) between August 2015 and… November 18, 2020 In "News" I would like to thank the Institute of Directors Nigeria for deeming it fit to admit me as a Fellow of this esteemed institution. It is indeed a great honour.   I remember when I was invited last year as a special guest of honour during the 2019 IOD Dinner;… December 30, 2020 In "Opinion" African oil producers face slump in production   Nigerians, again, got a new price for Premium Motor Spirit (PMS) also known as petrol on Friday. Adeola Yusuf, in this report, shows how profiteering resulting from this demarketed the deregulation policy and attracted harsh reactions from Nigerians     For… November 17, 2020 In "Business"