 House of Representatives member, Abdullahi Balarabe Salame has disclosed that he killed one of the Gunmen that stormed his home, on Friday midnight.
They attacked his residence in the Bado area of Sokoto around 3am.
Salame, who represents Gwadabawa/Illela federal constituency, disclosed that he killed one of the assailants.
“I was attacked in my house in Sokoto by armed robbers. But by Allah’s powers, I was able to shoot and kill one, and injured some,” he said.
The lawmaker also shared photos of the foiled attack.
Salame, a former Speaker of the Sokoto State House of Assembly, is a 2023 governorship aspirant.
“They came to destroy him. Allah (SWT) did not give them the opportunity because Allah (SWT) promised to protect anyone who stands for truth and trust.
“This attack is not the first time. It has been done to the people who stand because the society is facing this kind of challenge,” a supporter, Bilal Goronyo wrote on Facebook.
Sokoto State Police Command confirmed the incident, reports PM News.
The spokesman, ASP Muhammad Sadiq said the robbery attempt was thwarted by the swift response of the joint metropolitan police patrol.  Suspected robbers have shot dead a businessman, Obinna Egbochu, at Sabaru, Tamaje area of Sokoto in Sokoto State. The state Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO), Muhammad Abba Sadiq, said investigations into the matter were on. Wife of the deceased, Mrs. Chka Obinna, said the gunmen invaded the residence of the… November 26, 2020 In "Metro & Crime" Gunmen have killed a member of Bauchi State House of Assembly, Musa Mante Baraza, at his residence in Dass Local Government Area of the state and also abducted his two wives and a one-yearold daughter. The killing was confirmed by the Bauchi State Police Command, which said Baraza was a… August 15, 2020 In "News" ..injure others, steal arms, ammunition Youths protest, demand probe of attack Armed men on Monday night attacked a Divisional Police Station in Igueben Local Government Area of Edo State and killed two officers. The heavily armed men also carted away arms and ammunition. A police inspector and a constable (names… November 11, 2020 In "Metro & Crime"