Kwara State Governor AbdulRahman AbdulRazaq has launched a 10-year Agricultural Transformation Plan, designed to ensure food security, generate employment opportunities, and also reduce the poverty rate. The plan, according to the governor, is hinged on six pillars of crop production, finance, livestock, access to market, value chain, and cross-cutting programmes. AbdulRazaq, at the launch of the document at the weekend in Ilorin, the state capital, said the document comes with measurable milestones to ensure faithful implementations by all the stakeholders involved.  He said: “It is a 10-year plan which is based on verifiable data gathered from field research and extensive consultations with various stakeholders and experts in the sector. The plan spells out the opportunities and challenges in the agricultural sector in the state, and identifies six pillars that are critical to the success of the plan.  “These pillars are crop production, Finance, Livestock, access to market, value chain, and cross-cutting programmes. The document explains each of these pillars and the milestones to be reached in the course of its implementation.”  AbdulRazaq explained that the plan also comes with detailed monitoring and evaluation mechanisms to constantly interrogate the journey while attention is also paid to sustainability. Speaker of the Kwara State House of Assembly Rt. Hon. Yakubu Danladi Salihu said the administration of AbdulRazaq is making frantic efforts to improve rural road infrastructure for easy movement of farm produce  Kwara State Governor AbdulRahman AbdulRazaq has launched a 10-year Agricultural Transformation Plan, designed to ensure food security, generate employment opportunities, and also reduce the poverty rate.   The plan, according to the governor, is hinged on six pillars of crop production, finance, livestock, access to market, value chain, and cross-cutting… January 17, 2021 In "News" Following recent pronouncement by the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) for integration of non-interest credit facilities into the Anchor Borrowers’ Programme (ABP), the Targeted Credit Facility (TCF) and other agricultural credit schemes, the All Farmers Association of Nigeria (AFAN) and other agric stakeholders have demanded that the window be exclusively… July 10, 2020 In "Business" Even before the advent of the coronavirus (Covid-19) pandemic crisis, the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) had recognised that increased cultivation of key commodities such as rice, maize, cassava, oil palm and tomatoes and so on, would help the country’s economy cope better from external shocks, writes Tony Chukwunyem  … September 9, 2020 In "Business"