…union demands fair allocation of N40bn earned allowance Barely two weeks after the Academic Staff Union of Universities (ASUU) called off its over nine months strike, the National Association of Academic Technologists (NAAT) has issued a 14-day strike notice to the Federal Government. The university workers, who are protesting the disparity in the N40 billion earned allowance released to the four university-based unions to share, are also demanding release of 50 per cent of the N71 billion accrued allowance being owed members of the union from the 2009 agreement reached between government and the union. Already, the union has conveyed its grievances and the ultimatum in a letter written and delivered to the Minister of Labour and Employment, Chris Ngige, informing him of their planned industrial action. The NAAT President, Comrade Ibeji Nwokoma, who made this known in Abuja, also lamented that the 2009 Agreement, which ought to have been renegotiated after three years, was yet to be fully implemented. He said: “We have written to government that NAAT as a body ought to have been given a specified percentage of the N40 billion. You must define it. You can’t just say ASUU 75 per cent and others 25 per cent. Let us know the specific percentage you are giving to NAAT as a union. “In the MoU we entered with government on November 18, in item number 2b, we demanded that in sharing of the N40 billion released; that government should clearly define what is going to be allocated to each union and government agreed to the genuineness of our demands and said NUC and Federal Ministry of Education will work it out in conjunction with the union. And what they have done negates completely the spirit of that MoU.” Nwokoma stated that as a result of the breach of the agreement, the union is giving the Federal Government an ultimatum within which period the issue must be resolved, failure of which they will embark on industrial action. “We have given government ultimatum of 14 days. We wrote to government 30th December. And we have given government 14 working days and if at the end of the 14 working days our demands are not met, we resume our suspended strike. Definitely we will close down the schools; definitely there will be no opening of schools. If anybody thinks that ASUU has called off strike and that schools will reopen, then let the person dare us. Let us know how effective or how possible it is for schools to reopen when technologists are on strike. “If government in its own wisdom has said ASUU should take N30 billion from the N40 billion released, it is not the business of my union. But we have also told government that the arrears accruable to my union since 2009 to 2020, they have paid up to 2012, is N71 billion and we have demanded for 50 per cent of that amount and we have also given government ultimatum of 14 days. If government fails to do that, we will call out our members on strike. Nobody has monopoly of closing or opening of universities by strike. We have said that repeatedly,” he said. Nwokoma, who further raised concerns over the deplorable state of laboratories and studios in universities, accused government of having abandoned technology. He said: “We demanded that government should release N100 billion because if you go to all the universities, you will discover that the laboratories are dilapidated.”   ...demands fair allocation of N40bn earned allowance Barely two weeks after the Academic Staff Union of Universities (ASUU) called off it's over nine months strike, the National Association of Academic Technologists (NAAT) has issued a 14-day strike notice to the Federal Government. The university workers, who are protesting the disparity… January 3, 2021 In "Education" The National Association of Academic Technologists (NAAT), has warned the Federal Government not to be blackmailed into accepting the University Transparency and Accountability Solution (UTAS), being canvassed by the Academic Staff Union of Universities (ASUU). Speaking  after its 44th National Executive Council (NEC) meeting, President of NAAT, Ibeji Nkokoma, noted that… December 6, 2020 In "Education" The National Association of Academic Technologists (NAAT), has warned the Federal Government not to be blackmailed into accepting the University Transparency and Accountability Solution (UTAS), being canvassed by the Academic Staff Union of Universities (ASUU).   Speaking after its 44th National Executive Council (NEC) meeting, president of NAAT, Ibeji Nkokoma,… December 7, 2020 In "News"