Ondo State Governor, Mr. Oluwarotimi Akeredolu, yesterday approved massive recruitment into the state Security Network otherwise known as Amotekun Corps. The approved massive recruitment is the second batch since the creation of the security agency as part of the efforts of the governor to beef up the operation of the security outfit in fulfillment of its mandate as contained in the Ondo State Security Network Agency and Amotekun Corps Law 2020. The categories of officers to be recruited include regular officers, intelligence Corps and volunteers. Interested and suitable applicants must be from 20 to 70 years while they must possess at least, first school leaving certificate. The applicants must also be medically and psychologically balanced with good character and good working knowledge of immediate locality. According to a memo signed on behalf of the Corps commander, Tunji Adeleye by Lanre Amuda, submission of forms and screening of candidates will open between January 27 and February 8. Interested candidates have been directed to obtain the recruitment form from the agency’s website at www. ondoamotekun.org.ng. Akeredolu had hinted in December 2020 that his administration would recruit more eligible personnel into the Amotekun Corps as part of his efforts to stem the tide of kidnapping and other criminal activities in the state.  Ondo State Security Network Agency known as Amotekun Corps officially commenced operation yesterday following the passing out of the corps operatives. Governor Oluwarotimi Akeredolu, who witnessed the passing-out ceremony of the pioneer corps officers held at the Gani Fawehinmi Freedom Arcade, Igbatoro Road, Akure, promised a water-tight security across the… August 12, 2020 In "News" The take-off of the Ondo State Security Network, otherwise known as Amotekun Corps, last Tuesday, has put the potency and capability in grassroots security to test. Before the Ondo inauguration of the outfit, Ekiti and Osun states have done the same, though without much fanfare. For the residents of the… August 15, 2020 In "News" Security agents yesterday arrested a middle-aged man, Kareem Isiaka, in Ibadan, Oyo State for allegedly trying to defraud people by claiming to be the recruitment officer for the Oyo State Security Network Agency otherwise called Amotekun.   The state Commissioner for Information, Culture and Tourism, Dr. Wasiu Olatubosun, said Isiaka… September 15, 2020 In "Metro & Crime"