 Pierre-Emerick Aubameyang scored twice as Arsenal beat Newcastle to move into the top 10 of the Premier League and increase the pressure on Magpies boss Steve Bruce.
Aubameyang, who had earlier hit the post from a tight angle in the first half, opened the scoring in the 50th minute when he fired past Newcastle goalkeeper Karl Darlow, reports the BBC.
Arsenal doubled their lead as Emile Smith-Rowe’s pullback found Bukayo Saka and the England international side-footed the ball into the net.
Aubameyang got his second and the Gunners’ third after Cedric Soares, in his first league start of the season, got to the byline and set up the Gabon international.
Miguel Almiron had Newcastle’s best chance but shot over from the edge of the penalty area when it was goalless.
The victory takes Arsenal above Aston Villa into 10th, with the Gunners seven points adrift of fourth-placed Liverpool in the last Champions League qualifying spot.
Newcastle are 15th, seven points clear of 18th-placed Fulham, although the London side have a game in hand.
For Bruce, who faced calls for his resignation after last week’s 1-0 loss to bottom-of-the-table Sheffield United, his side have now not won in nine matches in all competitions,
RESULT
Arsenal 3 – 0 Newcastle  Pierre-Emerick Aubameyang scored twice as Arsenal beat Newcastle to move into the top 10 of the Premier League and increase the pressure on Magpies boss Steve Bruce. Aubameyang, who had earlier hit the post from a tight angle in the first half, opened the scoring in the 50th minute… January 18, 2021 In "Sports" *Everton cage Foxes Ten-man Arsenal earned a point against Southampton to bring their three-match losing streak in the Premier League to an end. Theo Walcott had opened the scoring on his return to his former club with a delightful dink over onrushing goalkeeper Bernd Leno. Pierre-Emerick Aubameyang finished smartly after… December 16, 2020 In "Sports" Bournemouth's Premier League survival was dealt another blow as Newcastle beat them comprehensively with an exciting performance at Vitality Stadium. Jefferson Lerma's mistake was punished by Dwight Gayle to give Newcastle an early lead and Cherries manager Eddie Howe shook his head in frustration as Sean Longstaff made it… July 1, 2020 In "Sports"