 Oyo State Governor, Seyi Makinde has been called to cancel the selection process for appointing a substantive Rector for the Oyo State College of Agriculture and Technology, Igbo-Ora.  The call, according to the petitioners, became necessary as the process had been compromised and fraught with irregularities and nepotism.  The petition dated January 18, 2021, in which a copy was obtained by New Telegraph, stated that the process, which was skewed in favour of two candidates and strategically disqualified 24 experienced professors, fell short of standard practices.  “The global acceptable practiceistoscreenthecurriculum vitae of each applicant to determine how they meet the requirements as advertised and select a minimum of six for an interview. The statutory standard is to recommend the best three to the Moderator of the college based on the performance at the interview,” the petition added.   However, no interview was conducted on all the 26 applicants for the post of Rector, but rather the 24 professors were disqualified on the flimsy grounds of noninclusion of their letters of promotion to professorship rank in the curriculum vitae  submitted.  The petitioners in the petition in which a copy was sent to the state Commissioner for Education, Science and Technology, Mr. Olasunkanmi Olaleye, also alleged that only the favoured two finalists were privy to the information due to their relationship with the Chairman of the Governing Council of the College, and the Acting Registrar of the college, were selected.  “We strongly call for a fresh, rigorous and unbiased selection process of a new Rector, which will throw up competent hands capable of assisting His Excellency to actualise his vision for the education sector as being witnessed in massive investment in the sector in recent times  Oyo State government yesterday commenced oral interview exercise for some 7,000 applicants who scored 50 per cent and above in the Computer Based Test (CBT) conducted by the state's Teaching Service Commission (TESCOM).   Chairman of TESCOM, Pastor Akinade Alamu, who briefed newsmen on the sidelines of the interview sessions,… September 22, 2020 In "News" Lawrence Olaoye   Oyo State Governor, Seyi Makinde, unarguably had been made before becoming the governor of the Pacesetter State in 2019. An individual who officially declared N48 billion assets cannot be described as a financial dwarf by global standards.   At every given forum, he has consistently maintained that… January 24, 2021 In "Politics" Oyo State Governor, Engr. Seyi Makinde has been advised to make 20,000 tonnes capacity Ibadan Inland Port project being constructed at the Olodo area the hub of industrialization in the state by developing a master plan that would incorporate ancillary support projects based on the multiplier effects of the dry… July 24, 2020 In "News"