*New lockdown won’t affect pro sport Liverpool’s Premier League title defence suffered a setback as they fell to their second loss of the season at Southampton.
Danny Ings’ superb second-minute lob over Reds goalkeeper Alisson, from a James Ward-Prowse free-kick, settled the contest against his former club, reports the BBC.
Jurgen Klopp’s Liverpool side remain top of the table on goal difference but have taken only two points from the past nine available.
Both Manchester United and Manchester City will leapfrog the reigning champions if they win their games in hand.
Southampton’s first win in five Premier League games sees them rise to sixth.
Meanwhile, professional sport in England can continue behind closed doors, despite a new national lockdown announced by Prime Minister Boris Johnson.
It means Premier League football and elite leagues in other sports are allowed to carry on.
People living in England have been told to stay at home and schools will shut for most pupils from Tuesday.
Exercising outside is allowed once a day, but venues such as gyms, tennis courts and golf courses will be closed.
Organised outdoor sport for disabled people is exempt from the new measures.
On Monday, the UK recorded more than 50,000 new confirmed Covid cases for the seventh day in a row.
The rules regarding sport and leisure activities in England are similar to those announced in Scotland earlier on Monday.
Games and training in non-elite football – which includes all adult and youth grassroots, except for disabled people – have been suspended.
The Women’s FA Cup is among the non-elite competitions placed on hold. All but one of the second-round matches scheduled to take place on Sunday were postponed because of Covid-19 regulations.
Teams from the Women’s Super League and Women’s Championship enter the draw from the fourth round onwards.
RESULT
Southampton 1 – 0 Liverpool  *Saints hammer Sheffield United 3-0 Liverpool missed out on the chance to go top of the Premier League and were somewhat fortunate to come away with a draw from a game in which they were second best for large periods to an impressive Fulham. Mohamed Salah earned them their point,… December 13, 2020 In "Sports" *Saints hammer Sheffield United 3-0 Jeffrey Schlupp scored a late Crystal Palace equaliser after a mistake by Hugo Lloris to deny leaders Tottenham victory before their top-of-the-table game at Liverpool on Wednesday. Harry Kane put Spurs on course for a sixth win in seven league games with a shot from… December 13, 2020 In "Sports" Manchester City midfielder Kevin de Bruyne has been named the Premier League player of the season.   The 29-year-old scored 13 goals as City finished second in the top flight behind champions Liverpool.   De Bruyne also matched a competition record of 20 assists, equalling former Arsenal forward Thierry Henry's… August 17, 2020 In "Sports"