After years of prevarications, there are indications that the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) may adopt electronic voting and electronic transmission of results of the November 6, Anambra State governorship poll ahead of the 2023 general elections.  The Chairman of Voter Education and Information Committee of INEC, Barrister Festus Okoye, who dropped the hint in an exclusive interview with Sunday Telegraph, added that INEC is confident that the country will have a new Electoral Act by the beginning of the second quarter of 2021, which will allow for electronic voting.  Okoye said: “The Commission will adopt relevant technology based on and backed by the Constitution and the Electoral Act in conducting and transmitting the results of the governorship election in Anambra State.  “The Commission will conduct the election using electronic voting machines based on our understanding of the state of the law and our resolve to deepen the use of technology in the electoral process.  “The Commission may adopt a two-track approach to the transmission of election results. It may continue with the manual transmission of results and refine the z-pad technology and transmit results. Ultimately, the Commission will adopt the solution that guarantees the integrity of electoral outcomes.”  *See full story on pages 14   Most Nigerians had over time craved for an amendment to the Constitution as well as the Electoral Act 2010 to allow for electronic voting system, which many believe will boost the confidence of voters in the electoral process if properly implemented. Section 52 (1) (b) of the Electoral Act 2010… July 30, 2020 In "Editorial" Most Nigerians had over time craved for an amendment to the Constitution as well as the Electoral Act 2010 to allow for electronic voting system, which many believe will boost the confidence of voters in the electoral process if properly implemented. Section 52 (1) (b) of the Electoral Act 2010… June 25, 2020 In "Editorial" Electronic voting as game-changer for future polls   FELIX NWANERI writes on the renewed clamour for the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) to adopt electronic voting system, which many believe will boost the confidence of voters in the electoral process if properly implemented      Nigeria conducts general elections every… September 14, 2020 In "Politics"