The Catholic Bishop of Idah, Most Rev. Anthony Adaji said that Nigeria needed focused and committed patriots to place her along the trajectory of development. He said this during the requiem mass for Mrs. Catherine Anyanwu Nnagbo at St. Patrick Cathedral, Awka.  The cleric said he was averse to making comments about politicians due to lack of trust in them, but that he was always pleased seeing the likes of former Governor Peter Obi, whom he described as “exemplary and an epitome of humility.”  The bishop said after evaluating what Obi did in Anambra State and having followed his contributions to nation-building and his numerous advices on what should be done, that he was convinced Nigeria needed the likes of Obi today to move her along the parts of recovery and development.  Describing Obi as a politician cast with a different mound, he said that seeing him renewed the faith of all men of good will that with right leadership, Nigeria would get it right once again.   Insisting that Obi is more than the Vice Presidency position he vied for during the last election, he advised him to go for the number One position because, according to him, Obi has a lot to offer this country in terms of the leadership that has continued to elude her.   Former Anambra State governor, Mr. Peter Obi, has explained to Christian faithful that being a bishop in any religious denomination or being in any position of authority, being it as president, governor, senator, is not a title to cling unto, but a call to duty and service to God and… October 4, 2020 In "News" The vice-presidential candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in the last election, Mr. Peter Obi, has explained that politics was not to be seen as a career opportunity, but as an avenue to serve and contribute to the growth of society.   Speaking on ‘Politics 101 with Peter Obi’… August 17, 2020 In "News" Barely two weeks after I published ‘If I were the president, I will listen’ the nation is up in flames with youths across the country protesting against police brutality under the hashtag #EndSARS. In the said opinion article, I observed that the president is not listening and that it is… October 27, 2020 In "Opinion"