Roman Abramovich says Frank Lampard’s status as a Chelsea icon “remains undiminished” despite his dismissal, and has thanked him for his work at Stamford Bridge over the last two years.  Lampard’s 18-month reign in the Chelsea hot seat came to an end when he was sacked by the club on Monday morning. The 42-year-old guided the Blues to a fourth-place finish last season despite being hampered by a transfer ban, but was unable to build on that platform in the first half of the 2020-21 campaign.  Summer signings, such as Timo Werner and Kai Havertz, have struggled to adapt to their new surroundings, with Lampard ultimately unable to find the optimal system to bring the best out of a talent pool costing over £200 million (£273m).  Chelsea are currently sitting eighth in the Premier League standings having lost five of their last eight games, including a dismal 2-0 reversal at Leicester City last week.  A 3-1 FA Cup fourth-round victory over Luton Town proved to be the final game for Lampard, who has seen his initial three-year contract cut short at the halfway point.  Abramovich, who has never previously released a statement after axing a manager, paid tribute to a club legend in the wake of his departure, insisting that, although a tough decision had to be taken, he still enjoys the full respect of the board.  Chelsea have sacked head coach Frank Lampard after 18 months in charge. Former Chelsea midfielder Lampard, 42, leaves with the club ninth in the Premier League table after last week's defeat at Leicester City, having won once in their past five league matches, reports the BBC. His final game… January 25, 2021 In "Sports" Frank Lampard is set be sacked by Chelsea less than 24 hours after the club's FA Cup victory over Luton Town. Confirmation could come as soon as today after Chelsea players were told not to report to the training ground until this afternoon. Chelsea are currently on a poor… January 25, 2021 In "Sports" Chelsea manager Frank Lampard will speak with his players before deciding whether Jorginho remains the club’s penalty kick taker after the Italian missed his second spot kick of the season. His miss came in their 4-0 win over Russian side Krasnodar in the UEFA Champions League on Wednesday. Jorginho had… October 29, 2020 In "Sports"