 Security Expert, Dr. Ona Ekhomu,  has described the passage of the former Vice Chancellor of the University of Lagos, Prof. Oyewusi Ibidapo-Obe as a “rude shock” and a great loss to academia and the nation.
He described Prof. Ibidapo-Obe as an astute administrator, a frontline scholar, a good Christian, who used to engage in interminable debates about the condition of the Nigerian nation, and will be sorely missed by his family, friends and a nation that is at the crossroads.
Ekhomu, who is the National President of the Association of Industrial Security and Safety Operators of Nigeria (AISSON), said that Prof. Ibidapo-Obe cared deeply about the governance of Nigeria, issues of higher education and youth empowerment.
He said that Ibidapo-Obe was a member of the Faculty of the Master in Criminology (MCRIM) programme in the Sociology Department of University of Lagos where Ekhomu himself also lectures lamenting that the MCRIM Programme has also suffered a huge loss by the passage of the erudite scholar.
Ekhomu philosophized that great men are not known by the number of years they spend on earth, but by the way they impact the lives of their fellow human beings. “They are remembered by how they empowered others,” he added.
While praying to God to grant the soul of Prof. Ibidapo-Obe eternal rest, he urged Nigerian leaders to imbibe the virtues of servant leadership, uncompromising excellence, humility, altruistic service and love of country which characterized the life of the late Vice-Chancellor.  Some eminent South- West leaders under the aegis of Yoruba Summit Group yesterday warned that they may mobilise the Yoruba nation against the 2023 elections if the current government failed to restructure the country before the election year. That was just as members of the group urged President Muhammadu Buhari… July 24, 2020 In "News" Security expert, Dr. Ona Ekhomu, has advised the Federal Government to take urgent actions to counter the infiltration of terrorists from the West African Sub-region into Nigeria. He said that Nigeria’s already dire security situation will be severely aggravated if it is further complicated with attacks by foreign Sahelian Jihadi… August 16, 2020 In "Politics" Security expert, Dr. Ona Ekhomu has advised the federal and state governments to conduct annual detailed vulnerability assessments of government buildings, key national assets, critical infrastructures and other facilities to prevent destruction by terrorists. He said that with the growing specter of Jihadi extremism in the country including… August 30, 2020 In "News"