 Former Vice President, Atiku Abubakar, has received a jab of Pfizer COVID-19 vaccine.
This was revealed by a media personality, Dele Momodu, who shared pictures showing Atiku receiving the jab in Dubai, United Arab Emirates.
“Former Vice President, The Wazirin Adamawa, Alhaji Atiku Abubakar, receives Pfizer COVID-19 jab vaccination,” Momodu captioned the pictures on Twitter.
Atiku’s spokesman, Paul Ibe, also confirmed the news, saying: “The importance of the #COVID19 vaccine in mitigating the effect of the coronavirus cannot be overstated, particularly in Africa and Nigeria. Yesterday (Wednesday), as part of the mass vaccination programme, His Excellency Atiku Abubakar received the Pfizer-BioNTech COVID-19 vaccine.”
Atiku had in a New Year Day message expressed the belief that “the vaccine(s) would soon be available for vaccination in Nigeria.”
He added, “It is also hoped that very soon life would return to normal.”
It had earlier been reported that the Federal Government on Tuesday said it hoped to get 42 million doses of COVID-19 vaccines to battle coronavirus in the country.
This was said by the Executive Director of the National Primary Healthcare Development Agency, Faisal Shuaib, at the press conference of the Presidential Task Force on COVID-19 in Abuja.
He stated: “Through Covax facility, we expect to receive approximately 100,000 doses of the Pfizer/BioNTech vaccine by the end of January. A letter announcing this allocation is being expected this week.”  Moderna has been approved by the US government as the country's second Covid-19 vaccine, clearing the way for millions of doses to be released. The Food and Drug Administration (FDA) authorised the US-made jab about a week after approving a Pfizer/BioNTech vaccine which is now being distributed. The US… December 19, 2020 In "News" Former Vice-President Atiku Abubakar has described year 2020 as dramatic, adding that it was by the grace of God that many survived to witness 2021. Atiku, in a New Year message, said Nigerians faced multi-faceted challenges on account of "lazy and uninspiring leadership from the government at the centre." The… January 1, 2021 In "News" Moderna's COVID-19 vaccine has been approved for use by the EU's drug regulator. The decision by the European Medicines Agency came on the same day as the Netherland's began administering its first doses against coronavirus. EMA executive director Emer Cooke said: "This vaccine provides us with another tool to overcome… January 6, 2021 In "Health"