A total of 18, 360 community policing officers (CPOs) have been recruited and trained after undergoing screening and vetting processes.  The Inspector General of Police (IG), Mohammed Adamu, made the disclosure yesterday in Abuja.  This came as the Acting Chairman, National Salaries and Wages Commission, Mr. Ekpo Nta, said a new salary structure for the police force was in the offing. Speaking on the recruitment of the CPOs, the IG said the exercise was conducted in two batches with the first consisting 9,478, while the second had 8,278.  A state-by-state breakdown showed that Zamfara had the  highest number with 2,550, which the IG attributed to the security crisis in the state, while the Federal Capital Territory (FCT) had the least with 96.  According to the police chief, four states of Anambra, Borno, Kwara and Osun were yet to undertake the recruitment and training.  The IG added that modalities for the exercise were being perfected with the affected governors. He said: “Our community policing implementation plan is in phases and it covers sensitisation of the citizens and the police.  “The training ran for four weeks and upon completion, the CPOs were kitted with specially branded police uniforms with badges identifying them as community policing officers.”   Adamu added that the Force Headquarters had been receiving special requests from some state governors for the recruit ment, training, kitting and deployment of additional CPOs to their respective states  Governor Dave Umahi yesterday urged the Inspector-General of Police (IG), Mohammed Abubakar, to remove Ebonyi State from Zone 13 Headquarters of the Nigeria Police, in Anambra State. Umahi said the state could not belong to Zone 13 and should be allowed to be in Zone 9, Umuahia, Abia State where… August 14, 2020 In "Metro & Crime" #EndSARS protests, which started like an impossible dream on October 3, 2020, snowballed the following week, resulting in the Inspector-General of Police (IG), Mohammed Adamu, disbanding the Special Anti-Robbery Squad (SARS) on October 11. The IG soon announced that training of a new police unit to replace the disbanded SARS… October 16, 2020 In "Metro & Crime" The tussle between the Inspector General of Police and the Police Service Commission (PSC) over the right to conduct recruitment exercise for constables has continued to elicit reactions, with several top security experts warning of its negative effects on internal security and public safety in the country. Saturday Telegraph reports… November 7, 2020 In "News"