The Delta State Universal Basic Educa tion Board, (SUBEB) has trained over 9, 260 teachers in various skills to boost the meaningful education mantra as encapsulated in the five prong developmental agenda of Governor Ifeanyi Okowa.  The areas include, Jolly phonics, Quality Assurance, Early Child Care Development Education and School based model.  Other areas are, Cluster School Support Mechanism, leadership and management trainings as well as training of over 2,000 Head Teachers and Assistant Head Teachers on COVID-19 prevention and safety protocol as part of measures to prevent the spread of the pandemic in schools.  The Executive Chairman of the board, Hon. Sunny Ogwu, supported by an official of UBEC from Abuja, Mr. Emeka Ihenwokeneme, in Effurun in Uvwie Local Government Area of the state, yesterday said it was geared towards enhancing the quality of education in the state.  The board’s chair during the opening ceremony of a 5-day training workshop tagged, “The Role of School Support Officers’ Programme in the Effective Implementation of School Based Training Model”, in collaboration with the Universal Basic Education Commission, Abuja, stated that SUBEB would continue to give priority attention to its capacity building efforts by intensifying its training and retraining programmes for teachers in the state.  Malam Muhammad Dan’azimi is the Chairman of Nasarawa State Universal Basic Education Board (SUBEB). In this interview with CHEKE EMMANUEL, he sheds light on why he threatened to revoke some contracts over shoddy execution, unqualified teachers, reopening of schools and other sundry issues   Recently, the Board threatened to revoke… November 3, 2020 In "Education" The Chairman, Ondo State Oil Producing Area Development Commission (OSOPADEC), Hon. Barr. Olugbenga Edema has distributed a sizeable amount of quality educational materials to students and pupils of public secondary and primary schools in Ese-Odo and Ilaje local government areas of Ondo State. The event, which took place at… November 11, 2020 In "Metro & Crime" Ahead of August 4 resumption of schools, Delta State Government has trained over 5,690 teachers in the state on COVID-19 protocols as part of moves to prevent the students and pupils from contacting the pandemic. The state Commissioner for Basic and Secondary Education, Patrick Ukah, said the move was in… July 30, 2020 In "News"