 Cephas Iorhemen, Makurdi Dangote Cement Gboko plant has doled out its N10 million annual scholarship to indigent students of Mbayion community in Gboko Local Government Area of Benue State.
Receiving the cheque on behalf of the community, President of the  Yion Development Association (YIDA), Comrade Ande Per, thanked the company for the gesture.
The YIDA President expressed the community’s appreciation to the Dangote Group, noting that Dangote Cement has lived up to her responsibility despite the fact that production had not gone on for a very long time.
Comrade Per appealed to the company to expedite action on the  hospital at Ihungwanor that has been under construction by the company for several years so as to boost health care delivery around the community and its environs.
President of the Yion Students Association, lauded the company’s gesture and assured that students of the host community would put the money to judicious use.
In their separate remarks on behalf of the Dangote Cement Gboko  Plant,  the GM Administration Mr. Jonathan Kunde and the Acting Plant Director,  Mr. SV Srinivasan, sued for cooperation and understanding from the host community.  Dangote Granite Mines Limited, a subsidiary of Dangote Group said it had provided food palliatives and scholarships to five communities in Ijebu-Igbo in Ijebu North Local Government Area of Ogun State. The palliatives, meant to reduce the economic impact of the coronavirus pandemic on residents of the area, were taken… June 18, 2020 In "Metro & Crime" Dangote Coal Limited in Kogi State has disbursed its yearly scholarship fund to beneficiaries in the various host communities in the state. The disbursement was done at a ceremony attended by top traditional leaders, government officials, Dangote Coal staff and members of the communities.   Most of those who attended… October 12, 2020 In "News" Dangote Cement PLC, Ibese, said it had committed about N4.1 billion into various infrastructural projects as Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) for its 14 host communities in Yewa land in Ogun State.   This was as the company flagged off the 2020 Acutherapy training for youths in the area. In the… September 21, 2020 In "Metro & Crime"