There was another tragic security breach on Saturday morning when men of the Oyo State Security Network Agency popularly called “Operation Amotekun and some Fulani herders engaged in a clash at Aiyete, Ibarapa North Local Government Area.  The clash was said to have started at Okebi Village, but the cause of the clash could not be immediately ascertained as the Amotekun Commandant, Col. Olayinka Olayanju (rtd), when contacted said he was on his way to the town to know the extent of the incident.  His mobile phone was not reachable to get on update on his investigation as at the time of filing this report.  According to a man, Saliu, who claimed to be a resident of the areas seven persons had been killed, and about seven houses were razed. However, the Police Public Relations Officer, Gbenga Fadeyi (CSP) said that three persons were killed in the clash.  Saliu said: “Alhaji Usman Okebi and his two sons were killed. We don’t know what caused the fight. Some persons were shot and injured. The number of people killed has increased to seven.  Those who were shot and ran away later died in the bush.” Another source said the clash was between the Amotekun Corps and Bororo people. He said some persons were killed but could not say which suffered heavier casualties.  When contacted, Col. Adeyanju said he was on his way to the place to ascertain what happened, adding that: “I heard the same thing and I am on my way there now.”  Earlier, the Police PRO, Fadeyi, had said that the DPO at Aiyete Police Division had moved to the community to assess the situation. Later, he added that: “When the DPO of Ayete got wind of the incident, he moved in swiftly to ascertain the cause of the attack. In his report, three persons had died and two injured.  He has since commenced investigation and further development will unfold soonest, please”, he said yesterday eveni  ...as Ayandele condemns security breach, charges Makinde to act fast No fewer than three people were reportedly shot and killed by the operatives of the Amotekun Corps when some youths were carrying out social carnival in Tapa town in the Ibarapa geo-political zone of Oyo State on Wednesday. Men of… January 7, 2021 In "Metro & Crime" ...corps arrests cattle rustlers, herdsman Herdsmen yesterday attacked men of the Ondo State Security Network Agency otherwise known Amotekun Corps at Osi community in Akure North Local Government Area of the state. The operatives were attacked while attempting to arrest the herdsmen and their cows who destroyed crops on farmlands… December 10, 2020 In "Metro & Crime" Members of Amotekun Corps have reportedly shot dead three people during a carnival at Tapa town in Ibarapa area of Oyo State on Wednesday. Men of the Western Nigeria Security Network (WNSN) also known as Amotekun Corps had gone to disperse the youth but they refused. In the ensuing melee,… January 8, 2021 In "Metro & Crime"