 Levi Strauss & Co on Wednesday forecast first-quarter results below analysts’ estimates as the resurgence of COVID-19 shutters the denim maker’s stores in major markets, sending its shares 9% lower in extended trading.
The spike in coronavirus cases from late last year has led to lower traffic at stores and fresh capacity restrictions for shopping centers in key regions such as California, denting retailers’ sales during the crucial holiday shopping season, reports Reuters.
Levi said 17% of its stores globally were still closed, with a new wave of lockdowns in Europe shuttering 40% of the company’s footprint there.
The San Francisco-based company said it expects those stores to remain closed for the rest of the current quarter, resulting in a 10 cents to 12 cents hit to its earnings per share.
Including that impact, Levi forecast first-quarter adjusted earnings per share of 20 cents to 24 cents, below expectations of 33 cents per share, according to Refinitiv IBES data.
The company said it expects quarterly revenue to be down by a high-teens percentage in constant currency, more than estimates of an 11.9% drop.
However, the company could return to pre-pandemic revenue levels by the end of 2021 if conditions do not worsen, Chief Financial Officer Harmit Singh said.
Levi also beat estimates for the fourth quarter ended Nov. 29 as online sales soared.
Total revenue in the quarter fell about 12% to $1.39 billion but beat expectations of $1.34 billion.
Levi earned 20 cents per share on an adjusted basis, beating estimates of 15 cents per share.
The company also reinstated its quarterly dividend at 4 cents per share.  The shift in consumer patterns in the light of the economic situation in the country and corresponding squeeze on disposal income is taking a toll on the earnings of International Breweries Plc. CHRIS UGWU writes     As Nigeria suffers from volatility in crude prices and COVID-19 crisis, with government… November 23, 2020 In "Business" Italian super major, Eni, has reported an adjusted net loss of 714 million euros ($839 million) between April and June. The Rome-based oil company, which said this in a statement, posted a profit during this same period a year earlier. Analysts had estimated a 1.11 billion- euro loss. Eni’s second-quarter… August 4, 2020 In "Business" Revenue for African e-commerce heavyweight, Jumia, slid by 10 per cent in the second quarter, dashing hopes that lockdowns aimed at stemming the spread of coronavirus would lead to a flood of online orders. The company also said it would pay $5 million to settle class action lawsuits alleging misstatements… August 13, 2020 In "Business"