Prof. George Obiozor, Nigeria’s former Ambassador to the United States, Israel and the Republic of Cyprus, has said that with careful and mature consultations, the Igbo nation can secure the confidence and mandate of Nigerians to run for the presidency of the country in 2023. Obiozor is confident that if properly approached, Igbo can get a good deal from other Nigerians. “I believe this can be done without malice but with diplomatic dexterity, decency, candor and decorum”, he said. The former envoy, who is also running for the position of the President-General of Ohanaeze Ndigbo, is of the view that given the present state of Ndigbo in Nigeria, the team that would represent the region matters a lot as they will determine much of the destiny of Ndigbo in Nigeria or what follows. “Our position should therefore begin with efforts to effectively re-integrate the region into the Nigerian political process effectively, significantly and relevantly. “This will require serious diplomacy and not confrontations or conflict. Power elites reward their friends and frustrate or punish their enemies. Diplomacy’s greatest lesson as said earlier is to know how to ‘choose your enemies wisely and your friends carefully’. And most intriguing is how to make ‘your enemy’ your friend for specific objectives. “In fact, in politics and diplomacy, it is the identity of interest that are the surest of bonds between states and individuals in critical circumstances and moments as we are now”. Obiozor noted that the office of President-General of Ohaneze Ndigbo is not a career or a job or a position to fulfill personal ambition. “It must particularly at this moment in our history be a position that comes through inspiration, and experience to navigate destiny through precarious times of uncertainty, doubts, and general insecurity. Actually, the world itself including Nigeria is becoming not only more complex but downright dangerous. This position is to be held in sacred trust for it involves our people’s destiny”, he said.   Chief Willy Ezugwu is the Secretary General of the Conference of Nigerian Political Parties (CNPP). In this interview, he speaks on the clamour for a Nigerian president of South-East extraction in 2023 and Igbo unity, among others. FELIX NWANERI reports Politics of 2023 is gradually taking the centre stage of… August 21, 2020 In "Politics" Ahead of the expiration of the tenure of Chief John Nnia Nwodo as President-General of Ohanaeze Ndigbo, KENNETH OFOMA writes that from the outset the selection process may have been mired by controversies     By January 2021, the tenure of Chief John Nnia Nwodo, a Nigerian lawyer, economist and… December 20, 2020 In "Politics" The Secretary General of the Conference of Nigeria Political Parties (CNPP), Chief Willy Ezugwu, in this interview with FELIX NWANERI, speaks on the forthcoming election of a new leadership of Ohanaeze Ndigbo and the security situation in the country, among other issues What are your thoughts on the forthcoming election… January 7, 2021 In "Politics"