 Muritala Ayinla Following the recent tanker explosion along Apapa Oshodi Expressway, the Lagos State government has announced the temporary closure of the Toyota
Bridge to vehicular traffic movement to enable it to conduct structural engineering tests on the bridge.
The government said that the explosion, which affected road infrastructure on the axis, might also have affected the structural stability of the bridge which takes motorists to and from the Muritala Mohammed International Airport.
The State Commissioner for Transportation, Dr Fredrick Oladeinde, who disclosed this, however, announced alternative routes for use by motorists pending the outcome of the tests and the reopening of the bridge to traffic.
He said: “Motorists from Mile 2 to Cele on Apapa-Oshodi Expressway approaching Iyana Isolo through Daleko Bridge will need to make use of Aiye and Osolo Way to Asa Afariogun through 7&8 to access International Airport Road.
“Motorists from Toyota will make use of the service lanes by Armed Forces Resettlement Centre to BOC Gases on old NAFDAC Headquarters, through a U-turn at Cappa on Agege Motor Road to Bolade/ Oyetayo Street (Oshodi-Isolo Local Govt Secretariat) through Bolade on Apapa-Oshodi Expressway via Charity in order to reach International Airport Road.
“Motorists from Bus Terminal 2 Transport Interchange inwards Charity on Apapa -Oshodi Expressway can connect International Airport Road from Toyota through Anthony Oke to Ikorodu Road on the service lanes and return via Anthony Oke inwards Oshodi Oke to Charity and connect International Airport Road.”
The Commissioner, therefore that officials of the State Traffic Management Officials (LASTMA) would be deployed to the aforementioned corridors to control and manage traffic flow along the axis during the course of the diversions.  A tanker conveying Premium Motor Spirit (PMS) otherwise called petrol crashed and exploded yesterday on the Oshodi- Apapa Expressway, Lagos State. The accident involved a fuel tanker and a truck carrying iron rods. The explosion caused panic among commuters, motorists and traders along the route. The petrol-laden tanker was going… January 8, 2021 In "Metro & Crime" ...Motorists spend hours in gridlock Muritala Ayinla Motorists in Lagos groaned in several hours of gridlock on the Lagos-Ibadan Expressway as the Federal Government commenced repair work on Kara Bridge on Monday against the initial plan of fixing the bridge over the weekend. For hours motorists were held in… June 29, 2020 In "News" Some Lagos residents are becoming apprehensive over planned pertial closure of the Third Mainland Bridge. The Lagos State government, in this regard has allayed fears, assuring residents that measures have been put in place to ease movement during this period. MURITALA AYINLA reports Ms. Bolanle Iyanda is a senior official… July 22, 2020 In "City Life"