A truck yesterday crushed a man and his wife to death in an accident on Sagamu- Ogijo Road in Sagamu Local Government Area of Ogun State. One other person was injured in the accident which involved two vehicles and a motorcycle.  The Public Relations Officer (PRO) of the state Traffic Compliance and Enforcement Corps (TRACE), Babatunde Akinbiyi, told journalists in Abeokuta that the couple were travelling on a motorcycle when the accident occurred at 7.40am on Tuesday.  He said the motorcyclist rammed into a Toyota Camry marked EKY 733 GF while attempting to overtake the car.  According to him, the motorcycle fell while an oncoming truck with registration  number AGL 505 WX, ran over the couple and crushed them to death on the spot. Akinbiyi disclosed that only the motorcyclist was lucky as he sustained injuries. The TRACE PRO blamed  the accident on “speeding and reckless riding on the part of the motorcyclist which led to a brake failure”.  He said: “The motorcyclist was inbound Sagamu from the Ogijo axis, when in an attempt to overtake a Camry car, after having overtaken three trailers, hit the Camry car from the rear.  “The motorcycle fell on its side, the two pillion passengers it was carrying, fell on the road and the trailer coming behind ran over them. They died on the spot, while the motorcyclist was injured.  “Unfortunately, they were both husband and wife.” Akinbiyi said the victims’ bodies had been deposited at the morgue of the Olabisi Onabanjo University Teaching Hospital (OOUTH), Sagamu, while the injured motor list was taken to Idera Hospital, Likosi.  About 176 people died while 990 others were injured in various auto accidents in 2020 across Ogun State.   The Public Relations Officer (PRO) of the state Traffic Compliance and Enforcement Corps (TRACE), Mr. Babatunde Akinbiyi, disclosed this in Abeokuta yesterday.   Akinbiyi explained that during the year in review… January 26, 2021 In "Metro & Crime" Five persons were confirmed dead in a multiple accident at Sagamu interchange diversion area along the Lagos-Ibadan Expressway on th8. The Spokesman of the Ogun State Traffic Compliance and Enforcement Corps (TRACE), Babatunde Akinbiyi who conformed the accident to journalists in Abeokuta, the State capital, explained that the accident involved… August 20, 2020 In "Metro & Crime" Four persons have been crushed to death while two others were injured in an accident involving a Daf truck and a commercial bus around Capital Hotel area on the Ijebu Ode-Oru Road in Ogun State. The spokesperson, Traffic Compliance and Enforcement Corps, Babatunde Akinbiyi who confirmed the incident, said it… November 21, 2020 In "Metro & Crime"