The Edo State Government has concluded a 2-day training of school heads and teachers across public and private schools on coronavirus (COVID-19) preventive measures ahead of resumption of academic activities for all educational institutions in the state scheduled for Monday, February 1, 2021.  Permanent Secretary, Edo State Ministry of Health, Dr. Osawonyi Irowa said this during a press conference in Benin City, the state capital. Irowa said the training was organised by the ministries of health and education, noting that appropriate circulars on the role of schools, students and pupils have also been circulated.  The Permanent Secretary disclosed that enforcement for compliance of non-pharmaceutical intervention, including consistent, proper and compulsory wearing of face masks; hand washing and strict observance of physical distancing, is being actively conducted across the state by the risk communication and security pillars of the COVID-19 State Task force with the support of the Mobile Courts.  “The state government, through the Ministry of Health and Education, has concluded a 2-day training of School heads and Teachers across public and private schools on COVlD-19 preventive measures and appropriate circulars on the role of schools, students and pupils have also been circulated,” he added  Pauline Onyibe It is said that education is the base and foundation of every society.   Reason Coronavirus pandemic that affected the whole world and crippled the whole system can no longer be condoned as the federal government of Nigeria after waiting for so many months endlessly, decided to reopen… August 26, 2020 In "City Life" Edo State government has fixed February 1 as a tentative date for resumption of schools across the state owing to increase in the number of COVID-19 cases among children and young adults. Governor of Edo State, Godwin Obaseki who disclosed this to pressmen during a meeting with the state's COVID-19… January 16, 2021 In "News" The Kwara State government yesterday gave out 65,000 facemasks for distribution across schools ahead of tomorrow’s resumption of students preparing for their secondary school certificate examinations. The facemasks were to be distributed to senior secondary class three students as part of the government’s efforts to flatten the curve of COVID-19… August 4, 2020 In "News"