The Court of Appeal, Lagos Division has suspended an order of Mareva injunction, which attached the accounts of an oil firm, Seplat Petroleum Development Company. The appellate court in its ruling overturned the decision of Justice Rilwan Aikawa of a Federal High Court in Lagos that granted the mareva injunction last November 23, in a suit filed by a leading bank against Seplat over an alleged $85.8 billion debt. Other defendants in suit are: Cardinal Drilling Services Limited, Mr. Orjiako Ambrosie Bryant and Kalu Nwosu. In a ruling delivered by Justice Joseph Ikyegh (presiding), supported by Justice Umaru Abubakar Sadiq and Justice Bayero Abdullahi-Mahmud, the court held that the mareva injunction granted by the lower court could cause irreparable damage to the operations of the appellant’s businesses. Justice Ikyegh held that the fear entertained by Access bank that lifting the order would amount to treating substantive issues at interlocutory stage was unfounded and not based on facts.  Justice Rilwan Aikawa of a Federal High Court in Lagos on Monday refused an oral application by an oil drilling firm, Seplat Petroleum Development Company, seeking access to its accounts and offices which were locked by court order over an alleged $85.8 billion debt. The judge turned down the request… December 14, 2020 In "Business" Justice Nicholas Oweibo of a Federal High Court in Lagos has declined hearing of a motion seeking to lift a mareva injunction barring a South African retail firm, Shoprite Checkers (PTY) Limited, from transferring its assets. The judge in a ruling Monday said the matter was not urgent enough to… September 7, 2020 In "Metro & Crime" Justice Rilwan Aikawa of a Federal High Court in Lagos yesterday refused an oral application by an oil drilling firm, Seplat Petroleum Development Company, seeking access to its accounts and offices locked by a court order over an alleged $85.8 billion debt.   The judge turned down the request following… December 15, 2020 In "News"