  The global release of the James Bond movie “No Time to Die” was postponed to October from April, its producers said on Thursday, another setback for movie theaters trying to rebuild a business crushed by the coronavirus pandemic.
The movie’s new debut date is October 8, according to an announcement on the James Bond website and Twitter feed.
“No Time to Die,” from MGM and Comcast Corp’s Universal Pictures, had originally been set to hit the big screen in April 2020 before moving to November 2020 and then April 2021, reports Reuters.
The film, which cost an estimated $200 million to produce, marks actor Daniel Craig’s last outing as agent 007.
Cinema owners were hoping “No Time to Die” would kick off a rebound in moviegoing. The pandemic devastated the film business in 2020, and ticket sales in the United States and Canada sunk 80%. That hurt independent theaters and big chains including AMC Entertainment, Cineworld Plc and Cinemark Holdings Inc.
With the virus still rampant in many areas, including in the key Los Angeles market, Hollywood studios appear reluctant to send their biggest films to theaters. Many cinemas are closed, and ones that are open enforce strict attendance limits to allow for social distancing.
The Bond franchise is one of the movie world’s most lucrative, with 2015’s “Spectre” raking in $880 million at the box office worldwide, while “Skyfall” in 2012 grossed more than $1 billion globally.
The next closely watched movie is “Black Widow” from Walt Disney Co’s Marvel Studios, currently scheduled to debut in theaters on May 7.  The next James Bond thriller, No Time to Die, has been delayed yet again as a result of the ongoing coronavirus pandemic. The 25th instalment of the spy franchise was originally scheduled to open in April 2020 but when cinemas shuttered, it was pushed back to November. With the box office… October 3, 2020 In "Arts & Entertainments" A new trailer for No Time To Die - James Bond's 25th cinema outing - has been released online. The two-minute 34 second video ups the stakes for the long-awaited movie, telling fans that this is: "The mission that changes everything." It kicks off with Bond narrowly avoiding being… September 3, 2020 In "Arts & Entertainments" Hollywood movies suffered an unprecedented 80% slump in box office revenue in North America in 2020 as the coronavirus pandemic closed movie theaters and studios held back the release of scores of new films. Research firm Comscore said in an end-of-year report on Tuesday that the North American box… January 13, 2021 In "Arts & Entertainments"