Maj.-Gen. Irabor: The CDS is a member of the 34 regular
combatant course of NDA. He had served as the
Theatre Commander of Operation Lafiya Dole (OPLD)
in the North-East. The two-star General, who is likely to get double
promotion to the rank of General, is highly-regarded
as one of the OPLD commanders that took the counterinsurgency
war to its “glorious height,” thereby achieving
that “technical defeat” that the Federal Government
had boasted of.  He was also the Force Commander of the sub-regional
MNJTF with headquarters in the Chadian capital.
The new CDS will only change office at the Defence
Headquarters as he was until his enviable appointment
the Chief of Training and Operations at the DHQ.  Maj-Gen. Ibrahim Attahiru, the new Chief of Army
Staff was once the General Officer Commanding (GOC)
82 Division of the Nigerian Army in Enugu.  He had also served as the theatre commander of
OPLD at a time attacks by insurgents were heightened.
He was later recalled to the Nigerian Army Headquarters
in Abuja. Rear Admiral Awwal Gambo, the new CNS is an
Underwater Warfare specialist with a sub specialisation
in Intelligence. Until his appointment as CNS, he
was the Director of Procurement at the Defence Space
Administration.  Air Vice Marshal Isiaka Amao, the new CAS is a
member of 35th Nigerian Defence Academy Regular
Course and was commissioned as Pilot Officer on December
20, 1986. He was Director of Policy at NAF Headquarters.   Barring any lastminute change in administrative plan, the Army may arraign former Commander, Operation Lafiya Dole (OPLD), Maj-Gen. Olusegun Adeniyi, before a General Court Martial (GCM) sitting at the Army Headquarters (AHQ) Garrison in Abuja, today.   Investigations by New Telegraph revealed that the former OPLD commander's trial before the… November 30, 2020 In "News" Facts have emerged on why former commander, Operation Lafiya Dole (OPLD), Maj- Gen. Olusegun Adeniyi, is yet to be arraigned before a Special Court Martial, months after he was posted for jurisdiction. Our correspondent gathered that the senior officer will face trial on disciplinary ground. The Army authorities had posted… September 24, 2020 In "News" Barring any change in plan, the Nigerian Army has concluded plans to try a former Theatre Commander, Operation Lafiya Dole (OPLD), Maj-Gen. Olusegun Adeniyi, before a General Court Martial (GCM). New Telegraph gathered from highly-placed military sources that General Adeniyi has since been posted for jurisdiction before the yet-to-be constituted… July 17, 2020 In "News"