 Muhammad Kabir, Kano The Kano State government has shut down UMC Hospital in the state capital as punishment for allowing the admission of severe cases of COVID-19 instead of sending them to the designated isolation centre in the state.
The Commissioner for Information, Malam Muhammad Garba said in a statement that the action was in keeping with the protocols set by the state Task Force on COVID-19 that requires such facilities to attend only to mild cases of the disease.
He said as a result of its action, two confirmed patients with severe coronavirus cases died, one at the facility and another on the way to the hospital.
Malam Garba, who was in company of the Commissioner for Health, Dr. Aminu Ibrahim Tsanyawa during a visit to the hospital, said it would remain closed pending resolutiom of the matter between the management and governent.
The commissioner stated that two other patients with severe cases of the disease have been transfered to the isolation centre, while other patients on admission have been taken to the Malam Aminu Kano Teaching Hospital and Muhammadu Abdullahi Wase Specialist Hospital.  S ince the outbreak of the COVID-19 pandemic, all states of the federation and indeed the entire world had been jolted, to take preventive measures and reduce fatalities. In Kano State, the situation was not any different, as Governor Dr. Abdullahi Umar Ganduje’s foresight and pragmatic approach have seriously helped… June 21, 2020 In "Politics" …Directs civil servants to stay at home Muhammad Kabir, Kano The Kano State government has announced the imposition of a fresh ban on the activities of viewing and event centres across the state following increasing COVID-19 cases. The state's Commissioner for Information, Malam Muhammad Garba, who made the revelation in… January 19, 2021 In "Metro & Crime" The Reddington Hospital Group has commissioned the Armoured Shield Medical Complex, a state-of-the- art medical facility in Victoria Island, Lagos to deal with all cases related to Covid-19, from testing to treatment and management of other co-morbidity conditions presented by a patient. The new medical centre built in phases,… August 16, 2020 In "News"