 Musa Pam, Jos Plateau State Governor, Simon Lalong has said the installation of security lights in Jos Bukuru Metropolis was to mitigate the emerging security challenges in the state.
Commissioner for Information and Communications, Hon. Dan Manjang disclosed this on Saturday during the inspection of projects in Plateau North Senatorial District of the state.
He said government will prioritize the completion of the NUJ Secretariat to provide comfort zone for journalists in the state to carry out their constitutional responsibilities.
“This administration conceptualized the initiative of installing street lights in Jos Bukuru Metropolis to strengthen security in the state. The lights will expose evil people at night,” he said.
Meanwhile, the Commissioner for Health, Ndam Lar had said the newly constructed 200-bed General Hospital in Jos East and the Trauma Hospital in Riyom were to make health services accessible to rural communities in the state.
He noted that the conceptualization of the 22 Lalong Legacy Projects across the 17 local government areas was to make life easier for the people.  Musa Pam, Jos Plateau State Governor Simon Lalong, wife and members of his family, including his immediate staff, have tested negative to the coronavirus for the second time. Lalong in a press statement signed by Director, Press and Public Affairs, Dr. Makut Simon Macham said the second test conducted… July 6, 2020 In "Metro & Crime" T he Plateau Commissioner for Health, Dr. Nimkong Lar, yesterday, said that 41 health workers had been infected with COVID-19 in the state, with eight deaths recorded.     The commissioner made the disclosure at a press briefing in Jos on the update on government’s efforts at combating COVID-19 in… June 29, 2020 In "News" Plateau State government has disclosed that the state has so far in week 37 of the COVID-19 pandemic, recorded 3,231 confirmed cases, 31 deaths while 2,355 people have recovered in the state. Commissioner of Health in the State Dr. Nimkong Ndam Lar disclosed this on Monday at the COVID-19 engagement… September 21, 2020 In "Health"