The Chief Whip of the Nigerian Senate , Senator Orji Uzor Kalu, yesterday revalidated his membership of the All Progressives Congress, APC, in the ongoing registration and revalidation exercise in the state.  The former Governor engaged in the exercise in his Igbere Ward A, Bende Local Government Area of Abia-North in Abia State.  Present during Kalu’s revalidation exercise was the state and local government executives of the APC; APC ward chairman of Senator Kalu, Mr. Ikedieze Olua; Chairman Abia APC registration/ revalidation committee Ambassador Bala Meigida; State secretary of the APC, Barr. Perfect Okorie; Bende LGA APC Chairman, Mr. Joshua Jonah; leader Bende APC caucus and spokesman of the House of Representative,Hon. Benjamin Kalu; Chief Chekwas Okorie; Chief Francis Egu and others.  Shortly after the exercise, Senator Kalu ad-dressed members of Bende LGA caucus, who gathered at his Igbere country home for their inaugural meeting.  Kalu charged the stakeholders to be relentless in their efforts to mobilise more members into its fold.  Members of the Federal House of Representatives Honourables Nkeiruka Onyejeocha and Benjamin Kalu have been appointed as the Chairpersons of the Abia-North and Bende LGA All Progressives Congress caucus respectively. Their appointments were ratified and announced at separate inaugural meetings of the expanded Abia State APC Caucus held at Camp… December 1, 2020 In "News" The Abia State chapter of the All Progressive Congress (APC) has expressed appreciation to leader and Senator representing Abia North, Dr. Orji Uzor Kalu for the successful hosting of the party’s caucus meeting held at Kalu’s country home in Igbere, Bende local government area.   The party also sent a… August 11, 2020 In "News" APC membership registration exercise: Still a cat and mouse game   The All Progressives Congress (APC) membership revalidation exercise has slipped into crises and rancour in some state chapters of the party. In this report, New Telegraph correspondents x-ray the tussle among the different power blocs and chieftains at the… February 8, 2021 In "Politics"