 Emmanuel Onani, Abuja For the umpteenth time, the Department of State Services (DSS), has raised the alarm over plans by some unnamed individuals and groups to cause ethno-reoigious crisis in the country.
According to the DSS, the aim is to disturb public peace and order, thereby subverting the democratic process.
In a statement Wednesday by its spokesperson, Dr. Peter Afunanya, the secret service warned the plotters to desist from their subversive plot, vowing to work with other sister intelligence and security agencies, to frustrate the move.
The warning is coming less than a month after a similar alarm was raised on January 11.
“The  Department of State Services (DSS) hereby reminds the public of its earlier warnings about plans by persons and groups to exploit some fault lines to cause ethno-religious violence in parts of the country,” Afunanya said.
He added: “Latest developments indicate desperate efforts by these groups to subvert public order.  In this regard, they have continued to resort to inciting, unguarded and divisive statements and acts.
“The objective is to pit citizens against one another in order to apparently inflame the embers of tribal and religious discords.
“For the umpteenth time, the Service strongly warns these elements to desist forthwith from their (planned) nefarious acts or face the full wraths of the law.
“However, the DSS will, in collaboration with other security and law enforcement agencies, take necessary steps to ensure the safety of lives and property of the citizenry.”  The Department of State Services (DSS) has uncovered plots by some subversive elements to incite religious violence across the country.   According to the secret service, the plotters, who may have the backing of external forces, are targeting Sokoto, Kano, Kaduna, Plateau, Rivers, Oyo, Lagos and South-East states – Abia,… January 12, 2021 In "News" ...Sokoto, Kano, Kaduna, Lagos, South East states main targets ...says plotters have external collaborators The Department of State Services (DSS), said it had uncovered plots by some subversive elements to incite religious violence across the country.   According to the secret service, the plotters, who may have the backing of external… January 11, 2021 In "News" The Department of State Services (DSS), yesterday, said it had "uncovered plans by some persons and groups desirous of taking advantage of latest developments in parts of the country to destabilize it."   According to the DSS, highly-placed individuals and groups had concluded plans to cause ethnic tension and strife,… July 27, 2020 In "News"