 Players and officials of Adamawa United FC were robbed at gun point along the Benin-Ore Expressway on Friday at about 11.45pm on their way to their week 11 NPFL fixture against MFM FC in Lagos.
According to report, their phones,
feeding monies and other valuables were taken away by the criminals.
The team driver was also abducted in the process and as at press time, no one knows his whereabout, reports bsnsports.com.ng.
According to journalist, Tony Ademodi, who broke the news Saturday morning, he said some of the players had this season slept in the team bus because there were no accommodation for them.
“For a team that find it difficult to even feed the players, poor salary structure. Players of Adamawa united earn less than 100k per month, some even earn as low as N30,000.
“Most of their games away from home this season, players have slept inside the team bus, as there is no money to pay for hotel bills. Adamawa united have good players, but their problem is poor management and even the Adamawa state governor doesn’t care and is paying deaf ears to the issues bedeviling the club,” he concluded.
This week, Wikki Tourists bus got burnt to ashes when travelling to Uyo, Akwa Ibom for their matchday tie with Dakkada FC.  The Plateau Government has pledged support for Plateau United FC of Jos, ahead of the CAF Champions League and the 2020/2021 Nigeria Professional Football League (NPFL) season. Mr Victor Lapang, the Commissioner for Youths and Sports in the state, made the pledge while interacting with players and officials of the… November 10, 2020 In "Sports" Nigeria Professional Football League (NPFL) campaigners Wikki Tourists FC were involved in an accident that left the team's bus burnt to ashes along Kibo road around the popular forest area after Jos in Plateau State. The Bauchi-based outfit was on the way to Uyo, Akwa Ibom state, to honour… February 18, 2021 In "Sports" The bus conveying players from the Bauchi based Nigeria elite division side went up in flames on Thursday morning, albeit, no casualties were record- Wikki Tourists players and officials escaped a dangerous bus incident on Thursday morning. The club players were on their way to Uyo for their Nigeria Professional… February 19, 2021 In "Sports"