Governor Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi of Enugu State, on Friday, inaugurated the 272 special constables from the 17 local government areas, recently recruited and trained at Oji River Police College, for community policing in the state.  Recall that Gov. Ugwuanyi, on July 9, 2020, inaugurated the 17-man Enugu State Community Policing Advisory Committee (SCPAC), under the chairmanship of the State Commissioner of Police with the Chairman of the State Traditional Rulers’ Council, HRH, Igwe Amb. Lawrence Agubuzu, as cochairman.  The novel community policing initiative, which is a brain-child of the Nigeria Police Force, as communicated by the Inspector General of Police (IGP), Mohammed Adamu Abubakar, is saddled with the responsibility of deepening community approach as well as confidence, trust and mutual respect between the police and the people, in the management of crimes and criminalities   A former Inspector General of Police (IG), Sunday Ehindero, yesterday warned operatives of the South-West Security outfit, codenamed Amotekun, against bearing firearms.   Ehindero said it was unconstitutional for either Amotekun Corps or special constables trained for community policing to bear firearms.   The former IG disclosed this at the… December 22, 2020 In "Metro & Crime" The Nigerian Police, Sokoto State command, yesterday inaugurated the state community policing advisory committee in some local government areas. Inaugurating the committees in Bodinga and Wamakko Local Governments Areas of the state, the Commissioner of Police, CP Ibrahim Sani Ka'oje, described the programme as necessary. He urged people of the… June 24, 2020 In "News" Lagos State Commissioner of Police, Hakeem Odumosu, has warned the newly recruited constables to shun corruption and avoid misuse of power.   Odumosu gave the warning yesterday while addressing the police constables at the command headquarters, Ikeja. The constables were deployed to their various divisional police headquarters across the state.… January 26, 2021 In "Metro & Crime"