Former Governor of Abia State and Chief Whip of the Senate, Dr. Orji Kalu has congratulated the Chairman of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Ebonyi state, Hon. Stanley Okoro- Emegha on the occasion of his 50th birthday anniversary.  Describing the Commissioner for Border and Internal Security in Ebonyi State as a dependable, courageous and compassionate politician, Kalu stressed that the celebrant’s performance in public service is remarkable and encouraging.  While wishing Emegha longer life in the service of the people, Kalu extended his greetings to family, friends and associates of the APC Chairman. In his tribute to the celebrant, the Senate Chief Whip commended Emegha for his contributions to the APC, adding that the APC chieftain has sustained his goodwill in all spheres of life.  He said: “On behalf of my family and constituents, I congratulate Hon. Stanley Okoro-Emegha, Chairman of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Ebonyi state, on the glorious occasion of his 50th birthday anniversary.  “Emegha is a dogged, courageous, compassionate and dependable politician.  “He is a rallying point for many youths beyond his community. “The APC chairman is complementing efforts of Governor David Umahi in repositioning the party in Ebonyi State.  “As Emegha marks his golden jubilee birthday anniversary, I pray to God for continued success for the celebrant.”  Edda Grassroots Organizations (EGO) has commended the leadership of the All Progressives Congress (APC) for the appointment of Ebonyi State Commissioner for Internal Security, Border Peace and Conflict Resolution, Hon. Stanley Okoro Emegha, as Caretaker Chairman of the State chapter of the party.   Applauding the Chairman, Caretaker/ Extra-ordinary National… November 22, 2020 In "News" All Progressives Congress (APC), Ebonyi State chapter yesterday said the party has come to stay in the state. Caretaker Committee Chairman of the party, Chief Stanley Okoro Emegha stated this in Afikpo Edda, Afikpo South local government area of the state when he reached out to stakeholders of the party… January 6, 2021 In "News" Ebonyi State chapter of the All Progressives Congress (APC) yesterday told National Assembly members from the state elected on the platform of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) that none of them have the capacity to win any election in the state. The party said the eight federal lawmakers couldn’t have… November 27, 2020 In "News"