…seeks quick release of kidnapped Jangebe school girls Appolonia Adeyemi As the freed 27 students of the Government Science College in Kagara, Niger State return to their families, UNICEF has commiserated with the family of their fallen school mate, Benjamin Habila, who was shot dead during the overnight attack on the school.
In a statement, UNICEF Representative to Nigeria, Peter Hawkins also urged the government to expedite action on the release and safe return of the kidnapped students of Government Girls Secondary School, Jangebe, and all abducted school children yet to be released.
He made the call while expressing relief from the news of the Kagara student’s release.
Hawkins said: “My thoughts and prayers are with the family of Benjamin, which has suffered a huge loss.”
In addition, he said: “I am relieved to receive the long-awaited news of the release of 27 students of the Government Science College in Kagara abducted from their school over a week ago and I look forward to their safe return to their families.
“The Kagara school attack – like that of Government Girls’ Secondary School Jangebe in Zamfara State  on Friday, and others before it – shouldn’t have happened in the first place because children shouldn’t be the target of attacks, least of all in a place they ought to feel safe – a school.”
In addition, he said: “Attacks on educational facilities are a grave violation of children’s rights.” Hawkins stressed that children should never be the target of attack – and yet, far too often in Nigeria, they are precisely that – victims of attacks on their schools.
However, UNICEF Representative to Nigeria said: “Such attacks not only negate the right of children to an education, they also make children fearful of going to school, and parents afraid to send their children to school.
“Schools must be safe places to study and develop, and learning should not become a perilous endeavour.”  Northern governors, yesterday, said they were distressed and saddened by the spate of attacks and abductions, particularly yesterday’s abduction of some students, staff and families at the Government Science School, Kagara, in Niger State by suspected bandits. Chairman of Northern States Governors’ Forum and Governor of Plateau State, Simon Lalong,… February 18, 2021 In "News" The Niger State government has described the murder of Benjamin Habila, a student of Government Science College (GSC) Kagara, as a “colossal loss”. Habila was the only person killed when bandits invaded the school last week. Hannatu Salihu, Niger Commissioner for Education, commiserated with Habila’s family in a statement… February 21, 2021 In "Metro & Crime" President Muhammadu Buhari yesterday issued a stern warning that the armed forces have the capacity to crush the bandits in their hideouts but were hamstrung by rules of engagements. He also hinted that fear of heavy casualties was stopping the Federal Government from crushing the bandits, who reportedly abducted over… February 27, 2021 In "News"