Tony Anichebe Uyo First Military President, General Ibrahim Babangida (rtd), Akwa Ibom Governor, Udom Emmanuel, his Bayelsa State counterpart, Douye Diri and the Pan-Niger Delta Forum (PANDEF) on Saturday paid glowing tributes to the first indigenous military governor of Akwa Ibom, late Air Commodore Idongesit Nkanga(rtd).  Nkanga, the pioneer Chairman of PANDEF died on Christmas eve of 2020. His body was interred at his hometown, Ikot Nya in Nsit Ibom Local Government after full military honours by officers and men of the Nigerian Airforce.  A special valedictory session led by Governor Emmanuel was conducted on Friday as Nkanga’s remains were on lying in state at the Executive Chambers of the Government House, Uyo. Babangida, represented by Brigadier-General Anthony Etukudoh (rtd) described the late Nkanga as one of the best military officers the country had ever produced who fought for the unity of Nigeria.  IBB said: ”He was my former student, one of the best military officers Nigeria has ever produced. Commander Presidential Fleet during my time, a very good administrator, endowed with passion for hard work. ‘  ‘As a military governor of Akwa Ibom State, which I created in 1987, late Nkanga came to the world as a uniform soldier, fought for the unity of Nigeria and its development.” In his remarks Governor Emmanuel said Nkanga was a great patriot, confidante, friend and visionary leader who was not only an asset to Akwa Ibom but to the Niger Delta region and Nigeria as a whole.  Bayelsa State Governor, Douye Diri in his condolence message described the late Airforce officer as one of the fathers of the Niger Delta, an activist and intelligentsia from the region whose strong voice would be missed forever.   First Military President, General Ibrahim Babangida (rtd), Akwa Ibom Governor, Udom Emmanuel, his Bayelsa State counterpart, Douye Diri and the Pan-Niger Delta Forum (PANDEF) on Saturday paid glowing tributes to the first indigenous military governor of Akwa Ibom, late Air Commodore Idongesit Nkanga(rtd). Nkanga, the pioneer Chairman of PANDEF died… February 6, 2021 In "Metro & Crime" ...As AKSG holds valedictory session for ex MILAD In honour of Akwa Ibom's first indigenous Military Governor, Air Commodore Idongesit Nkanga, and in appreciation for his positive contribution to the growth of the Nigerian Air Force, NAF, Akwa Ibom State, the Niger Delta and Nigeria at large, the Akwa Ibom… February 6, 2021 In "News" Tony Anichebe, Uyo A former Military Governor of Akwa Ibom State and Director General of Divine Mandate, a political machinery that worked for the emergence of Governor Udom Emmanuel, Commodore Idongesit Okon Nkanga (rtd) has died from COVID-19. Nkanga died early Friday morning after a long battle with the… December 25, 2020 In "Metro & Crime"