 Beats Fuzion UK in partnership with Roael Entertainment Jamaica has announced the commencement of the first ever “Hello Africa!” Singing Contest open to all music artists from Africa or into any of the African music genres.
This is following the successful impact of the Beats Fuzion “Hello Africa!” show which is currently being aired on Ujima 98 FM Bristol, UK and listened to all around the world.
With this move, Beats Fuzion and Roael Entertainment wish to attract nominations from upcoming and emerging music African artists from Africa and other parts of the world.
Eligibility criteria is simple. Artists are required to follow Beats Fuzion UK on Instagram and Twitter as well as required to submit a video of themselves singing their song preceded by a short bio introducing themselves, their song as well as their name, age, their preferred genre, why they want to become a music artist as well as one unique thing about themselves.
Entries are to be submitted to beatsfuzionuk@gmail.com on or before 11:59pm (GMT) Wednesday March 17, 2021. Winner will be announced on Wednesday March 31, 2021 via the Beats Fuzion Instagram page.
The winner will receive a cash prize of $1,000 as well as a one album contract which. The entire production cost of the album will be undertaken at zero cost to the winning artist.  Ujima Radio, based in Bristol the UK, is a very unique platform with so much pedigree in the radio broadcasting industry in the United Kingdom. Launched in 2008, it has created a lasting impact on not just the wider Bristol Community but also globally with a web based digital player… September 2, 2020 In "Arts & Entertainments" African arts, music and culture is taking center stage as “Hello Africa!” Show is now airing on Ujima Radio Bristol UK. Beats Fuzion UK’s ‘Hello Africa’ show chose to feature on Ujima Radio because of company’s work ethics and reputation in the United Kingdom media.   According to the Producer… September 6, 2020 In "Body & Soul" Nigerian music stars Burna Boy and Rema have both clinched nominations for the 2020 MTV EMA. The two singers will be vying for the award of the Best African Act alongside stars from other African countries. Other African singers in the category include Master KG, Kabza de Small and… October 7, 2020 In "Arts & Entertainments"