The Senior Staff Association of Nigeria Universities (SSANU), Western Zone, has postponed the union’s election of new officers at Olusegun Agagu University of Science and Technology (OAUSTECH), Okitipupa, Ondo State. The election which was scheduled for today was postponed over nationwide strike of the union. A circular signed by Mr. Olayiwola Salaam, the National Vice-President of the union (West) yesterday said that all inconveniences were regretted. “I write to inform you of the postponement of the quadrennial Congress scheduled for Thursday in OAUSTECH. “The election can no longer be conducted in solidarity for the ongoing nationwide strike embarked upon by SSANU and Non-Academic Staff of Universities (NASU). “A new date for the congress will be communicated as all inconveniences are duly regretted,” Salaam said. The News Agency of Nigeria gathered that the union had commenced the nationwide action on 5th February, 2021 over inability to resolve dispute over Integrated Personnel and Payroll Information System (IPPIS) sharing formula of the N40billion earned academic allowances and non-payment of arrears of new minimum wage. Other demands of the workers included the nonpayment of retirement benefits to former members, non-constitution of visitation panels to universities, poor funding of universities, teaching staff usurping the headship of non-teaching units, among others.  Govt has no locus standi to declare strike illegal –SSANU   STRIKE Stakeholders are concerned over the protracted crises in the Nigerian public universities with incessant strikes by the various workers’ unions. Now, with SSANU and NASU strike, they are calling on the Federal Government to save the soul of… February 9, 2021 In "Education" …SSANU, NASU meet next week There are indications that the non-academic staff of Nigerian universities may declare s strike action in the coming week as all branch chairmen of its unions have been directed to summon joint congresses on Tuesday, January 19, 2021. The congresses are to take a resolution… January 15, 2021 In "News" ...as SSANU, NASU develops UG3PS as alternative to IPPIS   The Federal Government has said it was necessary to have all unions in the university system under a single entity, to enable academical growth and allow the Nigerian University System (NUS) match up to their peers abroad. The unions are; Academic… November 9, 2020 In "Education"