Charles Ogundiya Super Falcons Stars, which landed in Antalya, Turkey, for the fifth edition of the Turkish Women’s Cup taking place between February 15 and 24 have expressed their happiness on the opportunity to come together again.  The team played last during the qualifiers for the Olympics at the Agege Stadium and yet to come together again due to the cancellation of the Africa Women Cup of Nations due to the outbreak of the COVID-19 pandemic.  The players speaking ahead of the tournament said it was a good one for them especially with a new coach, Randy Waldrum, at the helm of affairs.  One of the oldest members in the team, Onome Ebi, said the Turkey Women Cup would afford the players to learn from the new gaffer.  She said: “It is sad that some of the key players of the team won’t be available, but we are going to do what we need to do.  “As for the new coach, I already worked under so many coaches and we are looking forward to the new things the new coach will be bringing to the team, his own tactics and pattern of play, I am ready to work with him and I hope he is going to bring something different to the team.”   *Striker scores twice in 7-1 win on his 100th cap *Mexico beat Holland, Germany draw 3-3 with Turkey Olivier Giroud became France’s second highest all-time top scorer on Wednesday in a 7-1 win over Ukraine, scoring twice to leapfrog Michel Platini’s total of 42 goals, and is now gunning for Thierry Henry’s all-time… October 8, 2020 In "Sports" The Super Falcons have again overlooked former captain Desire Oparanozie from their latest squad, while Sevilla forward Toni Payne has been called up by new coach Randy Waldrum for the Turkish Women’s Cup. Oparanozie fell out with top officials after she allegedly led a pay strike at the World Cup… February 12, 2021 In "Sports" Bayo Adigun is a young football player manager who had his playing career cut short due to the serious injury sustained while at FK Ventspils of Latvia in 2016. The former U17 Golden Eaglets player under late coach Yemi Tella, who won the U17 World Cup in 2007, was a… September 13, 2020 In "Sports"