A presidential candidate in the 2019 general election, Mr. Gbenga Olawepo- Hashim, has appealed to leaders and Nigerians at large to avoid statements and actions that show support for any party in a conflict as it has the tendency to undermine national cohesion and security.  This was as the businessman linked the collective survival of the country to the urgency in toning down divisive actions and speeches. Olawepo-Hashim disclosed this yesterday in a statement signed by him. He said this wad the time to motivate and encourage various security agencies to step up their game.  While expressing anxiety over the recent cases of ethnic tension arising from agelong farmersherders’ conflicts, the businessman-turned politician said agelong farmers-herders’ conflict exacerbated by other security challenges must never be a justification for ethnic stereotyping capable of provoking ethnic pogroms.  Reacting to rising ethnic tension in the country, Hashim warned that pitching one ethnic group against the other and pushing for attacks and reprisal attacks were illwinds that would only assured mutual destruction.  He said: “All patriotic Nigerians should be worried. I am worried. We all have roles to play, community leaders and social organisations must tone down divisive rhetoric.  “Now is the time to motivate and encourage various security agencies to step up their games. Now is the time for government and leaders to act as statesmen. We must unite to save the nation,” Olawepo-hashim said.   A presidential candidate in the 2019 general election, Gbenga Olawepo- Hashim, has said that the rotation of the presidency in 2023 would be counter-productive to the polity. Olawepo-Hashim in a statement issued yesterday in Abuja, said Nigeria needed a president that would unite the country, secure it and transform its… December 9, 2020 In "News" The 2019 presidential candidate of the Peoples Front, Mr. Gbenga Olawepo-Hashim has canvassed for an efficient police services run by well-trained men and women, who are motivated and well paid in line with acceptable standard operating procedures towards accountability and the protection of citizens fundamental human rights. Olawepo-Hashim, who the… October 16, 2020 In "Politics" Businessman and a former presidential candidate, Mr. Gbenga Olawepo-Hashim has said that time has come for all sides in the raging debate on the structure of the Nigerian federation to close ranks in the interest of unity, peace, security and development of the nation. The presidential candidate of the Peoples… January 29, 2021 In "Politics"