  Five-time world champions Nigeria will know their group phase opponents at next month’s U20 Africa Cup of Nations when the draw holds Wednesday at the Monotel Dar El Barka Hotel in Nouakchott, Mauritania.
The ceremony, which will be conducted by CAF’s Director of Competitions, Samson Adamu, will commence at 13hrs GMT (2pm Nigeria time) and will be broadcast on CAF’s digital platforms.
Fatai Amoo’s charges made sure of a place in the finals after reaching the final of the WAFU B U17 Tournament staged in Togo last month, where they lost 2-3 to Cote d’Ivoire’s Baby Elephants. Both teams are flying WAFU B’s flag at the competition taking place in Morocco 13th -31st March.
Hosts Morocco, Algeria (North Africa); Cameroon, Congo (Central Africa); Uganda, Tanzania (East Africa); Zambia, South Africa (Southern Africa); Cote d’Ivoire, Nigeria (WAFU B) and; Mali, Senegal (WAFU A) are the teams qualified for the finals and whose names will be in the pots on Wednesday.
Nigeria won the FIFA Cadet World Cup in 1985, 1993, 2007, 2013 and 2015.  Golden Eaglets will know their opponents at the U-17 Africa Cup of Nations in Morocco on Wednesday after the draw for the tournament. The Eaglets were beaten finalists of WAFU B edition of the qualifiers in Togo as 12 teams qualified for the competition.   They include hosts Morocco, Mali,… February 23, 2021 In "Sports" Five-time world champions Nigeria zoomed into the final of the WAFU U17 Cup Tournament in Lome, Togo on Friday, following a 1-0 win over Group A winners Burkina Faso at the Stade Kegue. Victory means the Golden Eaglets are now not only eligible to battle for the tournament’s… January 15, 2021 In "Sports" Nigeria’s U20 and U17 boys have been presented with tough tasks in the races for next year’s youth continental championships. At the Draws conducted Wednesday, seven-time African champions, Flying Eagles of Nigeria were housed in the same Group B as Ghana’s Black Satellites and the Junior Elephants of Cote d’Ivoire… October 21, 2020 In "Sports"