 Musa Pam, Jos ‌ An outbreak of bird flu, also known as avian influenza, has  hit Dong village in Jos North Local Government of Plateau State, killing over 5,000 birds. The Chief Veterinary Officer of the state, Dr Sipak Shase’et, who disclosed this to New Telegraph on Tuesday in Jos, said the outbreak had affected five farms in the Jos North Local Government Area. “We received an information  from a Veterinary Doctor that that handles one of the farms in Dong Jos North LGC on January 26 and went to the farm and investigated and our suspicion for avian influenza was very high and we took samples and sent to NVRI Vom including other farms that were suspected and the result came out that all the samples tested positive of avian influenza on February 2.” He said so far five farms have positive bird flu cases, saying the state will implore traced back mechanism to discover where exactly the virus came from. The Chief Veterinary Officer disclosed that based on investigation the virus was imported from Kano State to Plateau State by a Kano resident, who is an egg merchant and who has a farm in Jos North who shuttles between Kano and Jos.  Japan's worst bird flu outbreak on record spread to new farms and now affects more than 20% of the country's 47 prefectures, with officials ordering cullings after more poultry deaths. About 11,000 birds will be slaughtered and buried after avian influenza was discovered at an egg farm in Higashiomi… December 14, 2020 In "News" Thousands of pigs have been killed and scores of pig farms shut down in Ogun State following an outbreak of African swine fever. The deadly disease has reportedly ravaged pig pens in some parts of the state, especially Ijebu North East, Ijebu North, Ijebu-Ode and Ikenne local government areas, resulting… July 22, 2020 In "Business" Asia’s chicken farmers are confronting the region’s worst bird flu outbreak in years, with the deadly virus affecting farms stretching from Japan to India, roiling some poultry prices and showing no signs of easing. More than 20 million chickens have been destroyed in South Korea and Japan since November.… January 14, 2021 In "Agric"