Benue State Governor, Samuel Ortom, yesterday denied allegations against him by a chieftain of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Garus Gololo, that he had sponsored a militia group to kill Fulani herdsmen in the state.  Governor Ortom was reacting to the claim by Gololo that a youth militia group allegedly raised by him had stopped a commercial vehicle conveying Fulani herdsmen in Gboko and Yandev and allegedly killed them.  He (Gololo) also raised a ‘false alarm’ that following the killing, Fulani people were now afraid of travelling through the state to their respective destinations. But Governor Ortom, in a swift reaction, described the allegation as false and malicious, adding that no Fulani person had been attacked and killed in the state, stressing that all lawabiding Fulani were living in peace with other Benue people.  The governor said since he turned down Gololo’s request to be made special adviser and instead appointed another Fulani man as his aide, Gololo began to launch a ceaseless campaign of calumny and blackmail against him.  Governor Ortom in a statement by his Chief Press Secretary, Mr. Terver Akase, revealed that; “In January 2018, shortly after armed herdsmen attacked communities in Guma and Logo Local Government Areas, killing 73 people, Garus Gololo came out on behalf of the armed Fulani groups and accepted responsibility for the massacre, alleging that the attacks were in retaliation for their cows, which he claimed, were rustled.  Benue State Governor, Samuel Ortom Sunday denied an allegation pinned against him by a chieftain of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Garus Gololo that he had sponsored militia to kill Fulani herdsmen in Benue State. Ortom was reacting to the claim by Gololo that a youth militia group allegedly raised… February 7, 2021 In "Metro & Crime" *As army kills two herdsmen, recover assorted weapons, ammunition   Cephas Iorhemen, Makurdi   Benue State Governor Samuel Ortom Saturday called on President Muhammadu Buhari to declare armed Fulani herdsmen killing innocent people in communities of the state as terrorists, even as the Nigerian Army neutralised two suspected herdsmen who… July 11, 2020 In "Metro & Crime" The Benue State government recently marked the third anniversary of its Open Grazing Prohibition and Ranches Establishment Law. CEPHAS IORHEMEN reports on the gains and challenges of the legislation so far When Governor Samuel Ortom then on the ticket of the All Progressives Congress (APC) took over the helm of… December 17, 2020 In "Politics"