Chelsea captain Cesar Azpilicueta says he is ‘aiming to repeat’ the club’s 2012 Champions League success.  The defender joined the Blues in August 2012, just three months after they won Europe’s biggest prize. Since then he’s won two Premier League titles but has never lifted the Champions League trophy himself. Under the guidance of Thomas Tuchel, Chelsea are aiming to reach the quarter-finals of the competition.  They play Atletico Madrid today evening in what should be a fascinating match. Speaking ahead of the clash, Azpilicueta told the PA news agency: “When I joined Chelsea in 2012 after winning the Champions League, of course my aim was to repeat that. “It is something that sticks inside and every year when the chance comes, I want to go further.  It is the biggest competition in Europe. We know it is very tough but you have to be  ready for that challenge. “Personally, it is something that is in me and hopefully we can start from tomorrow, have a good game, get a great result and see how far we can go.”  Chelsea will come up against the in-form Luis Suarez, who played for Liverpool from 2011 to 2014. T h i s season, he’s bagged 16 goals in 20 La Liga matches and is sure to be a threat  Frank Lampard has urged the Premier League to push back Chelsea’s start to the 2020-21 season, claiming September 12 is too early for his players to recover properly given their imminent Champions League round-of-16 tie with Bayern Munich. Chelsea face the German champions on Saturday and the chances are that, facing a… August 3, 2020 In "Sports" The way Mikel Arteta remembers it, Arsenal had wanted it too much. Before the 2014 FA Cup final against Hull, when he was the captain, everybody connected to the club could feel the weight of a nine-year trophy drought. But, perhaps more than that, they could feel the future of… August 1, 2020 In "Sports" Chelsea have sacked head coach Frank Lampard after 18 months in charge. Former Chelsea midfielder Lampard, 42, leaves with the club ninth in the Premier League table after last week's defeat at Leicester City, having won once in their past five league matches, reports the BBC. His final game… January 25, 2021 In "Sports"