 Minister of Information and Culture, Lai Mohammed, has described as unpatriotic, Nigerians calling for the International Criminal Court to probe the immediate-past service chiefs.
Mohammed spoke on Tuesday during a Radio Nigeria programme, Politics Nationwide.
President Muhammadu Buhari, appointed four new service chiefs last week after much clamour from Nigerians that he bring in fresh hands to pilot the country’s anti-terrorism war.
The new Service Chiefs are Major-General Leo Irabor as Chief of Defence Staff; Major-General Ibrahim Attahiru as Chief of Army Staff; Rear Admiral A.Z Gambo as Chief of Naval Staff; and Air-Vice Marshal I.O Amao as Chief of Air Staff.
They took over from the ex-service chiefs —General Abayomi Gabriel Olonisakin (Chief of Defence Staff); Lt. Gen. Tukur Buratai (Chief of Army Staff); Vice Admiral Ibok Ibas (Chief of Naval Staff); and Air Marshal Sadique Abubakar (Chief of Air Staff).
But the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) and some other Nigerians have since demanded the probe of the Olonisakin, Buratai, Ibas and Abubakar to unravel circumstances behind the security lapses during their tenure.
But reacting on Tuesday, Lai Mohammed said: “To the best of my knowledge, our Service Chiefs obey the rules of engagement and where there are infractions, there are internal regulations and internal mechanisms to address them.
“Those who are calling for the ex-service chiefs to be invited to ICC are unpatriotic people.”
Mohammed also said civilians are not competent to talk on military structure and formations, whether in the North-Eastern states of Borno, Yobe and Adamawa or in any other parts of the country.
“Those who talk about the structure, what do they know about the structure of the military? I don’t think any of us is competent to talk about the structure of the military,” he said.
The minister, however, assured Nigerians that the new Service Chiefs have hit the ground running and would ensure Nigeria overcome the insurgency war in the North-East and in other parts of the country.  President Muhammadu Buhari has accepted the immediate resignation of the Service Chiefs, and their retirement from service. Those involved are the Chief of Defence Staff, General Abayomi Olonisakin; Chief of Army Staff, Lt-Gen. Tukur Buratai; Chief of Naval Staff, Vice Admiral Ibok Ekwe Ibas; and Chief of Air Staff,… January 26, 2021 In "Top Stories" GOCs, FOCs, AOCs, Generals, others to be affected A major reorganisation exercise is expected to take place in the Armed Forces of Nigeria (AFN), following the appointment of new Service Chiefs on Tuesday by President Muhammadu Buhari. Those affected by the development included the former Chief of Defence Staff (CDS),… January 28, 2021 In "News" Three of the newly-appointed Service Chiefs assumed duties yesterday, with a pledge to build on gains, while also soliciting public support. The Chief of Defence Staff (CDS), Maj-Gen. Lucky Irabor; Chief of Naval Staff (CNS), Rear Admiral Awwal Gambo, as well as the Chief of Air Staff (CAS), Air Vice… January 30, 2021 In "News"