Ilorin Kwara State Governor, AbdulRahman AbdulRazaq and the Emir of Ilorin, Alhaji Ibrahim Sulu- Gambari, have urged parents and guardians to inculcate the right religious and moral values in their children and wards to insulate them from negative influences.  The two spoke at the closing of Kwara State Qur’an competition in Ilorin, the state capital. Represented by the Secretary to the State Government (SSG), Prof. Mamman Sabba- Jibril, Governor AbdulRazaq said if the right religious education was inculcated in children, they would grow up to become responsible citizens. Governor Abdul- Razaq assured the state Committee on National Qur’an Recitation Competition of adequate support whenever the need arose.  He thanked the committee’s members and the competitors for making the state proud for winning laurels for the state in past competitions and urged them to sustain the tempo. Uthman Uthman and Firdaous Apaokagi from Ilorin West Local Government Area of the state, emerged overall winners of the competition in both the male and female categories.  Similarly, Ridwanullahi Abdulsalam from Ilorin West Local Government and Haleemah Adekanye from Offa Local Government came second in both the male and female categories.  People of Jebba, Shao and other Yoruba in Moro Local Government Area,  Kwara State have decried their continued subjugation to the Ilorin Emirate system. They particularly lamented that their traditional stools are being relegated and coerced to serve under the Ilorin Fulani feudalist-oligarchy. The people spoke in Shao at the… February 20, 2021 In "News" President Muhammadu Buhari, National Leader, All Progressives Congress (APC) Bola Tinubu and the governors under the aegis of Progressives Governors Forum, yesterday paid glowing tributes to Northern Nigeria’s first lawyer and father of the Governor of Kwara State, Alhaji Ganiyu Folorunsho AbdulRazaq, (SAN), who died yesterday.   In a statement… July 26, 2020 In "News" Kwara State government is concluding plans to name Kwara State Sports Complex Stadium Ilorin after late Super Eagles striker Rashidi Yekini. Kwara State Governor, AbdulRahman AbdulRazaq, made this disclosure on Thursday visited he visited the Minister of Youth and Sports Development, Mr Sunday Dare, in his office in Abuja. Governor… September 11, 2020 In "Sports"