 Andrea Pirlo says a Serie A defeat by Internazionale helped his Juventus side address their issues and earn revenge with a 2-1 semi-final first-leg victory against their rivals in the Coppa Italia.
The Italian champions were outplayed in a 2-0 defeat at San Siro on 17 January, but have won five consecutive games since including this comeback victory on Tuesday night, reports Reuters.
Cristiano Ronaldo struck twice following a Lautaro Martínez’s opener to help Juve to put one foot in the final ahead of the second leg in Turin on February 9.
Looking back on the league meeting with Inter, Pirlo told Rai Sport: “We weren’t in that game, but it served as a lesson for us. From there we regrouped, worked on the errors and more victories arrived. But tonight was the first round, there’s another game to come and it’s played over 180 minutes. Nothing is done yet.
“The guys were great, they faced Inter with the right attitude from the first minute. We went behind, but we continued to play. There was a great reaction from the team.”
Ronaldo appeared unhappy when he was substituted in the 76th minute, but Pirlo explained he wanted to keep his Portuguese talisman fresh for a busy period of fixtures.
“I told him that he had to come off because we have an important game on Saturday [against Roma in Serie A], so it’s right to let him catch his breath,” Pirlo said. “He’s playing many games consecutively, so every now and then a little bit of rest does some good.”
Inter’s manager, Antonio Conte, wasn’t happy with the result after Ashley Young conceded a penalty before a defensive mixup between Samir Handanovic and Alessandro Bastoni helped to put another goal on a plate for Ronaldo.
“We committed two naive errors that allowed them to go 2-1 up,” Conte said. “Otherwise it was another great performance, with many chances created. But we need to finish them, because now we’re talking about a negative result. The guys gave everything, they had Juve on the ropes, they deserved a lot more.”  *Lozano scores third-fastest Serie A goal but Napoli lose *Thomas Müller scores twice in Bayern’s 4-0 victory Juventus got their Serie A title defence back on track with a 2-0 home win over Bologna on Sunday that moved Andrea Pirlo’s side into the top four. Arthur Melo scored his first goal for the… January 25, 2021 In "Sports" Internazionale put more pressure on the stuttering Serie A leaders Juventus when two goals by Romelu Lukaku and one from Alexis Sánchez gave them a 3-0 win at relegation-threatened Genoa on Saturday. Inter, who have two games left, moved above Atalanta into second place with 76 points, four behind Juventus who host Sampdoria on… July 26, 2020 In "Sports" Juventus have appointed Andrea Pirlo as manager to replace the sacked Maurizio Sarri, a week after hiring the former midfielder as Under-23 boss. The Italian giants sacked Sarri after just one season despite winning Serie A following the club's Champions League last-16 defeat by Lyon on Friday. Pirlo, 41, has… August 8, 2020 In "Sports"