A Former Attorney- General of the Federation and Minister of Justice of Nigeria, Mohammed Adoke (SAN), yesterday lamented that the so-called new e-mail admitted by an Italian Court against him was forged. Adoke’s position was contained in a statement issued through his lawyer, Femi Oboro of Gromyco Amedu solicitors, London. Adoke stated that the campaign against him that the document is the “proof” that he had a close relationship with Alhaji Aliyu Abubakar, who is on trial in Milan along with Shell and ENI in the Milan Court, was preposterous. In the release tagged: “Re:Italian Court Accepts Email Evidence against Adoke”, the former AGF noted that he could not have sent an email through another person’s account, adding that he was no longer a minister at the time the purported email was allegedly sent. He added that the email purportedly sent by him from the email address of AgroupProperties, said to belong to Abubakar, in respect of the OPL 245 transaction of 2011, was a figment of the imagination of his detractors. The statement reads in part, “Our client states categorically that the email (copy enclosed) is a total forgery. First of all, the email is dated 21, June 2011. At the time in question, Mr Mohammed Bello Adoke SAN was no longer the Attorney-General of the Federation and Minister of Justice.  A former Attorney General of Federation and Minister of Justice, Mohammed Adoke, SAN, has asked the present AGF, Abubakar Malami, SAN to caution the Federal Government’s lawyer in the ongoing proceedings against Shell and Eni and other named individuals before the Milan Court in Italy over the OPL 245 transactions.… September 14, 2020 In "News" A former Acting Managing Director of Union Bank Plc., Rislanudeen Mohammed, yesterday told the Federal High Court sitting in Abuja, how he collected $2.2 million cash from a former Attorney-General of the Federation and Minister of Justice, Bello Adoke (SAN). The Federal Government is prosecuting Adoke alongside Aliyu Abubakar on… August 14, 2020 In "News" Former Attorney General of the Federation (AGF) and Minister of Justice, Mohammed Adoke (SAN), is stranded in the United Arab Emirate (UAE) where he tested positive for COVID-19.   His counsel and former Justice Minister, Kanu Agabi (SAN) disclosed this yesterday during the sitting of Federal High Court in Abuja.… January 12, 2021 In "News"