Governorof OsunState, Adegboyega Oyetola, yesterday canvassed mass participation in the All Progressives Congress (APC) membership registration and revalidation exercise, calling on party members and loyalists across the nation, particularly in the South-West to ensurefullparticipationinthe registration exercise. He, however, described the exercise as the only sacrosanct way of being becoming bonafidecard-carryingmembers of the ruling party. This is even as the national leadership of the party had honoured APC’s pioneer interim National Chairman, Chief Abdul- Kareem Adebisi Akande, by formally revalidating his membership in his home town, Ila-Orangun and Governor Oyetola in Iragbiji, his country home. Addressing members at two registration points in Ila and Iragbiji, Oyetola said the registration exercise became necessary as it would afford the leadership of the party an opportunity to update membership register of the party by accommodating new members while also enabling existing members to revalidate their membership. He said the exercise would further help to expand the membership base of the party which was in tandem with a reform that the National Caretaker and Extra-ordinary/Convention Planning Committee (CECPC) had put in place. Oyetola said: “As you all aware, this is a nationwide exercise holding simultaneously in no fewer than 119,973 polling units and 57,000 voting points across the country, in line with the directive by the national leadership of our party.”   In this analysis, JOHNCHUKS ONUANYIM looks at the controversy in the All Progressives Congress (APC) as its proposed membership validation exercise is said to be a ploy to snatch leadership of the party from some powerful members   Ahead of 2023 elections, the All Progressives Congress (APC) chieftains have engaged… December 6, 2020 In "Politics" Ahead of the January 25 nationwide member registration and re-validation exercise of the All Progressives Congress (APC), former Governor of Abia State and Chief Whip of the Senate, Dr. Orji Kalu has commended the national leadership of the APC under the able and dynamic leadership of Governor Mai Mala Buni… January 17, 2021 In "News" The All Progressives Congress (APC) has warned civil servants and all persons who currently enjoy the patronage of the Kano State government to join the ruling party or lose all the benefits and opportunities.   Chairman, Kano State chapter of APC, Abdullahi Abbas, who issued the threat yesterday while declaring… February 2, 2021 In "News"