The graduating students of the Federal College of Education (Technical) Secondary School, Akoka, Lagos have been advised to embrace entrepreneurship and vocational skills acquisition programmes as they strive for greater academic achievement and selfdevelopment.  The advice was given by the Provost of the Federal College of Education (Technical), Akoka, Dr. Wahab Ademola Azeez during their ninth valedictory/graduation ceremony of the school, which took place at the Chief Paul Alabi Multipurpose Hall of the college, where no fewer than 73 graduating students of 2019/2020 academic session, bade the school, teachers and colleagues farewell.  The Provost, however, recalled that the school had over the years laudable records both in academic, technical and vocational skills development, as well as in Information and Communication Technology (ICT), saying this has helped in a long way in equipping the students with life-time skills that would make them job creators and self-reliant.  Besides, Azeez advised the students to always explore and avail themselves the opportunities to acquire skills along their academic pursuits.  However, attendance at the event was restricted as part of measures to ensure social distancing in line with the Nigeria Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) protocols to contain the spread of COVID-19 pandemic.  Meanwhile, the guest speaker at the valedictory service, Dr. Olajumoke Mekiliuwa stated that Nigeria needed a new generation of entrepreneurs, who would dominate the labour market and reduce the unemployment rate in the country   Azeez, Abdulsalam, Mekiliuwa, Adebayo, others task graduands on skill acquisition, greater achievement ... As FCE (T) Secondary School, Akoka, Lagos marks its 9th Valedictory Service and graduation ceremony   The Provost, Federal College of Education (Technical) Akoka, Lagos State, Dr W. A. Azeez has advised newly graduated students of the… December 18, 2020 In "Education" The Valedictorian, Azeez Farouk Gbolahan shines as he graduated with excellence cum raking most of the gifts for best students in various academic categories at 2019/2020 Prize Giving Day of Federal College of Education (Technical) Secondary School, Akoka, Lagos State which was held on Thursday, 17th, December, 2020.  … December 18, 2020 In "Education" ...pledges to restructure schools     The Federal Government has said there was need to reform the method of teaching and learning in the 110 Federal Government Colleges otherwise known as 'Unity Colleges', in order to ensure  delivery of quality education in line with global best practices.   This came as the government pledged… February 8, 2021 In "Education"