 Muhammad Kabir, Kano Following the decision of the Kano State government to bar Sheik Abduljabar Nasiru Kabara from preaching, praying in his mosque and other Islamic activities, the Department of State Services (DSS) has drafted armed personnel to the area to ensure no law is broken.
The state government has prohibited Sheikh Kabara from preaching in the state on the grounds that his mode of teachings are too violent and inciting.
The DSS took the measure, according to sources, in order to prevent the Sheikh’s followers from protesting or any breach of the peace.
The government, according to the state’s Commissioner for Information, Malam Muhammad Garba, took the decision to bar Abduljabar at a recent Executive Council meeting.
The commissioner also announced that all seminaries run by the clergyman would be shut down pending investigation by security agencies.
Malam Garba further stated that the council has directed all broadcast stations and social media platforms to abstain from airing of such enflaming preachings, sermons, propagation and any other religious discussions in the interest of peace and tranquility in the state.
The commissioner also revealed security agencies have been directed to ensure full compliance and take decisive action against any person or group found flouting the order.
Heavy armed DSS personnel were seen at strategic locations around the Sheikh’s places of worship to ensure peace.  …Directs civil servants to stay at home Muhammad Kabir, Kano The Kano State government has announced the imposition of a fresh ban on the activities of viewing and event centres across the state following increasing COVID-19 cases. The state's Commissioner for Information, Malam Muhammad Garba, who made the revelation in… January 19, 2021 In "Metro & Crime" MUHAMMAD KABIR, KANO Kano State executive council has approved N2,300,000,604.24 billion for the provision of critical infrastructure at the proposed site of the Inland Dry Port at Zawachiki in Kumbotso Local Government Area of the state.   Briefing newsmen on the outcome of the weekly council meeting held at the… July 6, 2020 In "News" The Kano State Executive Council has approved the termination of a contract for the construction of the multi-million naira Dawakin Tofa 5km carriageway, which was re-awarded to Messrs CCECC Nigeria Limited at the cost of N651, 844, 966.51 million.   Contract for the  road project, which was awarded to Rocad… August 17, 2020 In "News"