 Argentinian football is mourning the passing of 1978 World Cup-winning striker Leopoldo Luque at the age of 71.
Luque had been hospitalised at the Clínica de Cuyo in Mendoza before Christmas and struggled to recover from COVID-19.
Hospital sources said he had suffered a fatal heart attack and had a history of cardiac trouble.
His former striking partner Mario Kempes led tributes describing Luque as “a great soccer player, a great friend and companion”.
Kempes added: “Rest in Peace and fly high friend!”
Kempes posted a picture of the pair taken last year when they were together in Mendoza.
Osvaldo Ardiles, a midfielder in the 1978 team, insisted Luque had been an “instrumental figure of our triumph in the World Cup of 78”.
“Nobody suffered more to achieve it,” continued Ardiles.
“It was a great honour to have him as a companion.
“Impossible to have someone better by your side.”
Argentinian newspaper La Nacion described Luque as “a luminous human being and an extraordinary footballer”.
The greatest moments of his football career came at the 1978 FIFA World Cup, but were tinged with tragedy when his brother Oscar died in a road accident during the tournament.
Luque scored Argentina’s first goal of the tournament in a 2-1 win against Hungary and four days later, his memorable long-range effort proved the winner against France.  Diego Maradona has been released from hospital just over a week after having surgery to remove a blood clot on his brain. The Argentina football legend left the clinic in Buenos Aires where he underwent the procedure on Wednesday and will continue his recovery at home. The World Cup… November 12, 2020 In "Sports" ...as police raid house, clinic of medic Argentine prosecutors are investigating Diego Maradona's doctor for possible manslaughter following the footballing legend's death four days ago. Police in Buenos Aires have searched the house and private clinic of Leopoldo Luque as they try to establish if there was negligence in Maradona's… November 29, 2020 In "Sports" Diego Maradona will undergo surgery for a subdural hematoma on Tuesday evening in Buenos Aires, the Argentina legend's doctor has confirmed. Maradona had been hospitalised since Monday night for anaemia and dehydration, though the 60-year-old's condition had been improving, his personal doctor had said earlier on Tuesday. The operation… November 3, 2020 In "Sports"