United States President, Joe Biden, has issued a presidential memo aimed at expanding protections for the rights of lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender and queer and intersex (LGBTQI) people across the world, including Nigeria.  The memo instructs agencies of the US across the world to consider appropriate responses, including the full range of diplomatic tools, and potentially financial sanctions and visa restrictions, when foreign governments restricted the rights of LGBTQ people  It also calls for increased efforts to ensure that LGBTQ asylum seekers have equal access to protection, expanded training for U.S. federal personnel, and potential increased use of priority referrals to expedite resettlement of vulnerable people.  Nigeria has an active anti-gay law signed by former President Goodluck Jonathan as Same-Sex Marriage (Prohibition) Act in January 2014, prescribing between 10 to 14 years in prison for cohabitation between same-sex sexual partners, public show of same-sex relationship, registration, operation or participation in gay clubs, societies and organisation, amongst others.  The newly inaugurated U.S. leader scaled up a presidential memorandum ratified by the Obama administration in 2011, which had sought to advance the rights of the queer community.  “All human beings should be treated with respect and dignity and should be able to live without fear no matter who they are or whom they love,” said the memorandum, building on a 2011 directive issued when Biden was serving as vice president.   Dakuku Peterside Dear Joseph Robinette Biden Jr., I wish to congratulate you on your winning the hard fought US Presidential Election, unseating the incumbent President Donald Trump. We all know the difficulty in defeating an incumbent American president, even a deeply flawed one. We know what happened when John Kerry… November 16, 2020 In "Opinion" The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) wants United States President, Joe Biden, to impose sanctions on leaders of the All Progressives Congress (APC) and officials of President Muhammadu Buhari administration involved in acts of corruption, alleged sponsorship of terrorists, and undermining the nation’s democracy.   The party also called on the… January 25, 2021 In "News" It is obvious that members of United Kingdom House of Lords who called on the UK Government to apply sanctions on Nigeria due to their shallow understanding of what constitutes the security problems in the country are, were not looking at the big picture. From all indication, their conclusion is… January 13, 2021 In "News"