 Bayern Munich are close to ending uncertainty over Jamal Musiala’s future by handing the England Under-21 international a new five-year deal.
Musiala is currently tied to Bayern on a youth agreement, which runs out in the summer of 2022, and the European champions are keen to ensure there is no prospect of losing the 17-year-old this summer. Liverpool and Manchester United have been monitoring the midfielder, who has impressed in Germany since leaving Chelsea in 2019, reports The Guardian.
Musiala, who spent eight years in Chelsea’s academy before deciding to seek a fresh challenge, has not looked out of place in Bayern’s first team.
The youngster has made 15 appearances for the German champions in the Bundesliga this season, scoring three times, and has featured in the Champions League.
He also came off the bench when Bayern beat Tigres to win the Club World Cup last week.
Bayern are determined not to open the door to Musiala returning to the Premier League.
They started negotiations over a new deal in December and talks have progressed in recent weeks. It is expected that Musiala will sign an incentivised contract, running until 2026, after he turns 18 on 26 February. The basic salary will be lower than £100,000 a week, though it could rise to that amount if Musiala meets certain goals.
Musiala’s form has also caused a stir at international level.
He made his debut for England Under-21s in November but Germany hope to convince the Stuttgart-born teenager to switch allegiance to them. Musiala appeared for Germany at Under-16 level and his decision will be finalised once he plays a competitive game at senior level.  German champions Bayern Munich clung on to the Bundesliga's top spot after holding closest rivals RB Leipzig to a thrilling 3-3 home draw, with Thomas Mueller scoring twice in a rip-roaring contest on Saturday. The result left Bayern on 23 points from 10 games, two more than Leipzig and… December 6, 2020 In "Sports" *Polish forward has 10 goals in five Bundesliga games *Quagliarella, Sampdoria shock Atalanta Robert Lewandowski bagged a hat-trick as Bayern Munich thumped Eintracht Frankfurt 5-0. In a typically ruthless Bayern performance, the forward struck twice in the first half-hour and added a third after half-time, before the substitutes Leroy Sané and Jamal Musiala completed… October 25, 2020 In "Sports" *Defender turns down approaches from Liverpool, PSG *Mario Mandzukic set to return to Europe with Milan David Alaba has reached an agreement to join Real Madrid on a free transfer in the summer, bringing to an end an 13-year spell at Bayern Munich. The defender will sign a four-year deal with… January 19, 2021 In "Sports"