Vice President Yemi Osinbajo has said the outbreak of Coronavirus has deepened poverty in the country.  Osinbajo made the remarks yesterday at a dialogue on the Nigeria Food System organised by the United Nations to raise global awareness and shape global commitments towards mobilizing food systems to address hunger, reduce diet-related diseases and strengthen plenary health.  Osinbajo, according to his spokesman, Laolu Akande, cautioned the global community to reflect on the realities of the country as it mobilizes resources towards addressing hunger and reducing diseases.  “The conversations in Nigeria and other developing countries must be allinclusive and reflective of the situations that concern us so that meaningful progress can be made towards attaining the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs),” he cautioned.  According to the Vice President, “I think that some of these issues are nuanced and we really need to take a closer look, especially at these dialogues so that our conversations are reflective of the issues that concern us as a nation, as a people and especially as a developing country.”  Emphasizing the importance of having an open conversation, Osinbajo noted that: “We have to take all of these issues into account, especially because we are debating issues in the international community, we are contributing to a global conversation and it is so important that the nuances of our own society and situation are introduced into this conversation so that the conversation is richer and fairer and more just for our people.  “I think we must also make it clear that this summit is about the entire value chain from farm to table and all that is in-between, including retailers, food processors, technology providers and financial institutions. All of these sectors are involved in the chain and so they are relevant in this summit, and all of their views have to be brought to the table.  “The issue of developing a sustainable food system has never been more urgent and more existential, in our case, perhaps more so than in many other countries.  Why? We are faced with population growth that exceeds growth figures handsomely. Poverty has deepened, particularly in the wake of the COVID-19 pandemic and its economic fallout.  “Malnutrition and unhealthy dietary practices create unique threats to health and productivity for generation after generation.  So, it is a significant challenge to produce enough food for a rapidly growing population, especially given the changes required in modernization of farming practices, mechanization and reduction of post-harvest losses.”  Lawrence Olaoye Vice-President Yemi Osinbajo has said that the rampaging global Coronavirus disease (COVID- 19) has forced many countries in the world to consider international collaboration and cooperation. According to a statement made available to newsmen by his spokesman, Laolu Akande, Osinbajo stated this yesterday at the 8th German-Nigerian Business… November 10, 2020 In "News" ...asks EU for support relief on commercial debt servicing for Africa   The Federal Government has said coronavirus vaccines should not be for the highest bidders but be made available to all countries in affordable and equitable manner.   Vice President Yemi Osinbajo who spoke at the virtual 2020 EURAFRICA… September 6, 2020 In "News" T he Federal Government has called on operators in the private sector to cooperate with it in the implementation of the Economic Sustainability Plan (ESP). Vice President Yemi Osinbajo made the call yesterday at the virtual edition of the Presidential Policy Dialogue of the Lagos Chamber of Commerce and Industry… August 8, 2020 In "News"