Al Shabab of Saudi Arabia’s new striker, Odion Ighalo, will be welcomed back into the Super Eagles fold soon if the words of Super Eagles coach Gernot Rohr are to go by.
Ighalo called it quits with the national team right after inspiring Nigeria to a third-place finish at the 2019 Africa Cup of Nations tournament in Egypt where he emerged as tournament’s top scorer.
But Rohr, according to report, has expressed delight with Nigerian strikers making waves with their European clubs, adding he was scouting on all fronts ahead naming a squad for the forthcoming 2021 AFCON qualifiers against Benin and Lesotho next month.
“Playing in Saudi is not a reason to eliminate a good player from Super Eagles. Ighalo has just moved to Saudi and we intend to keep eyes on him,” Rohr said.
“Terem Moffi (Lorient) is doing well like Taiwo  OlympicsAwoniyi (Union Berlin), Paul Onuachu (Genk), Umar Sadiq (UD Almeria), Henry Onyekuru (Galatasaray) again and others. We are looking in all directions.”
During the last AFCON qualifiers, Ighalo scored a total of seven goals – the most by any player.He also found the net against Burundi in the group phase; Cameroon in the round of 16; Algeria in the semi-finals and Tunisia in the third-place playoff.
He won the prestigious award, named best player of the decade shortly after then he announced his retirement before he received a loan offer at Manchester United from his Chinese Super League side Shanghai Shenhua  ...as CAF tips striker to shine for years Super Eagles Manager Gernot Rohr has urged his striker Victor Osimhen to demand from Napoli in clear terms the specific role they want him to play in the proposed project of Italian side before he signs a contract. The former Wolfsburg player… July 3, 2020 In "Sports" ...striker says no regrets playing for Man United A Dubai Club has offered former Super Eagles striker Odion Ighalo a £7m-a-year deal just as he said an emotional goodbye to his Manchester United team mates as his loan came to an end on Saturday. Ighalo has also been linked with… January 28, 2021 In "Sports" ...EPL teams eyeing striker Out of favour Manchester United and Super Eagles striker, Odion Ighalo, is attracting interest from the middle East as clubs from Saudi Ara-bia and Qatar are reportedly jostling for his signature According to Skyports, the last Africa Cup of Nations AFCON leading goal scorer is attracting… January 7, 2021 In "Sports"