   The Minister of Information, Mr Lai Mohammed has said that no ransom was paid for the release of the abducted Kankara schoolboys in Katsina State and the Dapchi schoolgirls in Yobe State.
He said this on Channels Television’s Sunrise Saturday while explaining some of the government’s strategies to curb the rate of abductions in the country.
“All these stories about ransom, are conspiracy theories,” the minister said.
His comments come days after another abduction of students in Kagara, Niger State, was executed.
Reacting to the incident, the minister who had on Wednesday visited the state with a Federal Government delegation to assess the situation, said the government is putting various strategies in place to curb the menace.
“Government has put in place various strategies to contain banditry, insurgency and kidnapping.
“Some of these measures are kinetic, some are non-kinetic,” Lai Mohammed said.
He, however, ruled out the option of a ransom being paid for their release.
When asked: Will a ransom be part of the government’s strategy? the minister said: “No”.
He continued by saying: “I can assure you that the government is on top of the matter – but it is not a subject matter for television discussion.
“We didn’t get there overnight, that is why we can’t get out in one day.”   ...on day 3, kidnappers gave us kuli kuli, uncooked potatoes •Don't be deterred by your bitter experience, Buhari tells students •FG: Boko Haram lied, schoolboys were kidnapped by bandits ...President coordinated operation leading to rescue •Come clean on abduction –PDP •Shehu admits error on number Fresh insights emerged last night… December 19, 2020 In "News" The Minister of Information and Culture, Alhaji Lai Mohammed, says terrorists target schools for the abduction of vulnerable children to embarrass the government and inflict damage on the credibility of a nation. Mohammed was reacting to the abduction and rescue of 344 schoolboys in Kankara and 80 Islamic school students… December 22, 2020 In "News" Presidential spokesman, Garba Shehu has explained how repentant bandits played a role in securing the release of over 300 schoolboys abducted from Government Science Secondary School, Kankara, Katsina. Shehu who disclosed this on Tuesday during an interview on 'Channels Television' breakfast programme, 'Sunrise Daily' said although no ransom… December 22, 2020 In "News"