 Oscar winner Jennifer Lawrence was hit near the eye by flying glass while filming her new movie in Boston, celebrity website TMZ and the Boston Globe reported on Friday.
Glass from a controlled explosion on the set of “Don’t Look Up” cut Lawrence’s eyelid and left her bleeding, TMZ said.
The Boston Globe said the extent of the injury was unclear in the accident that happened after midnight on Thursday. Citing two sources close to the production, the newspaper said Lawrence was holding her face when paramedics arrived and that filming was halted on Friday, reports. Reuters.
Netflix, which plans to release the comedy about two astronomers, declined to comment on the reports. Representatives for Lawrence did not immediately return a request for comment.
Hollywood outlet Deadline quoted unnamed sources as saying that Lawrence was recovering.
“Don’t Look Now,” directed by Adam McKay, boasts a star-studded cast including Timothee Chalamet, Ariana Grande, Leonardo DiCaprio, Chris Evans and Meryl Streep.
Lawrence, 30, who won a best actress Oscar in 2013 for “Silver Linings Playbook,” has not appeared on film since 2019’s “X-Men: Dark Phoenix” but has four new movies in the works, according to movie database IMDB.com
In late 2019, she married New York art dealer Cooke Maroney.  British actor Robert Pattinson has tested positive for COVID-19, news media reported on Thursday, halting production of "The Batman" and highlighting the industry's struggles to get back to business after months of a pandemic-induced shutdown. Movie studio Warner Bros. said in a statement that "a member of 'The Batman'… September 4, 2020 In "Arts & Entertainments" Tom Cruise let rip over an apparent breach of COVID-19 safety protocols on the London set of the new "Mission: Impossible" movie, telling crew members they would be fired if they don't obey the rules, Britain's Sun newspaper reported on Tuesday. In expletive-filled remarks captured on audio tape obtained… December 16, 2020 In "Arts & Entertainments" Elvis Presley's grandson, Benjamin Keough, has died aged 27. His mother Lisa Marie Presley is "completely heartbroken, inconsolable and beyond devastated", according to her spokesman. TMZ is reporting that Keough took his own life on Sunday in Calabasas, California, quoting police sources who said he appeared to die from… July 13, 2020 In "Arts & Entertainments"