The Federal Government may come to the assistance of Edo State towards hosting the 20th National Sports Festival expected to take place in Benin City from February 14th to 28th.  Minister of Youth and Sports, Sunday Dare, made the revelation at the just concluded 2021 Admiral Porbeni Boat Race in Abuja at the weekend. He said the Federal Government will support the state as the ministry awaits the approval for the support.  “Yes, they are ready to host and they have worked together with the Ministry of Youth and Sports Development to get where they are at this point. We are dealing with COVID-19 protocols, sporting infrastructures, health issues and provisions,” the minister said. “When there are postponements like these, there will be cost implications. Edo State has just had elections.  They have spoken with the ministry that they will need financial support which has not come from the Federal Government.  “The ministry has put up the case and it takes a process. We are sure we will get approval from that support. We are committed to the Nigerian youths who are beneficiaries and participants of this National Sports Festival.”  …as Council of Sports recommends Dec 3rd- 18 for Festival Minister of Youth and Sports Sunday Dare has said his ministry will seek financial bailout from the Presidency so as to complete abandoned sports infrastructure across the country. The minister who made the disclosure in his remarks at the opening… November 7, 2020 In "Sports" The minister of Youth and Sports Development, Sunday Dare, has refuted rumours that the Edo 2020 National Sports Festival has been postponed indefinitely . A statement from the Media office of the minister clarified that consultations were ongoing between the Ministry, the Edo State Government, the PTF on Covid-19 ,… October 24, 2020 In "Sports" The Presidential Task Force (PTF) on COVID-19 has approved January 3-17, 2021 for the National Sports Festival, Edo 2020. The new date was arrived at during a virtual a meeting on Thursday, convened by the Minister of Youth and Sports Development, Mr Sunday Dare, which reviewed circumstances around the… November 26, 2020 In "Sports"