…Lagos counsels parents, others The Lagos State Government yesterday issued a stern warning to various opposing groups planning to embark on protests at the Lekki Toll Plaza on Saturday, advising them to shelve the plan or face the wrath of the law. The government said that it would not allow any breakdown of law and order, saying most residents are yet to recover from the devastation experienced in the October 2020 violent #EndSARS protest. Speaking at a joint press conference held at the Bagauda Kaltho Press Centre, Lagos State Secretariat, the Attorney General of Lagos, Mr. Moyosore Onigbanjo (SAN); Commissioner for Information and Strategy, Gbenga Omotoso and Commissioner of Police, Mr. Hakeem Odumosu, said the protest is not in the best interest of Lagos residents. The government said it acknowledged the rights of the citizens to a lawful assembly and freedom to express their feelings as guaranteed by Sections 39 and 40 of the Constitution, but it said the rights did not give any citizen the freedom to block highways and prevent other citizens from moving freely within the state. Onigbanjo said the government would not allow any group to push the state, once again, to the edge of carnage, strongly advising those organising the “Occupy Lekki Toll Gate” and “Defend Lagos” protests to desist from the planned action. He said the state government’s respect for the citizens’ rights to protest should not be seen as a licence to break the laws, warning that any individual or corporate organisation that incites an action leading to the destruction of public and private properties would be prosecuted and be made to pay damages. He said: “Attention of the state government has been drawn to the planned protest scheduled for Saturday, February 13, 2021 at the Lekki Toll Gate for and against the opening of the Admiralty Toll Gate. The state is aware of Sections 39 and 40 of the 1999 Constitution (as amended), which guarantee the rights to freedom of expression and peaceful assembly. However, such right does not permit the violation of the rights of other citizens in the state. “While the state recognises the importance of exercising the rights to peaceful protests, the same cannot extend to blockage of roads or actions preventing other members of the public from enjoying their fundamental rights to move freely within the state. “Any individual or corporate body that incites or condones any act leading to the destruction of public and private properties shall be prosecuted under the extant laws and in addition to any penalty the court might pronounce. Such person or body will be liable to compensate for any damage, which may arise as a result of the action or inaction of such person or body.” The Attorney General also said the public health crisis occasioned by the spread of deadly variants of the Coronavirus (COVID- 19) should discourage anyone attempting to assemble people for the planned protests, urging all groups to consider COVID- 19 protocols that limit public gathering not to be more than 50 persons. Onigbanjo, therefore directed the State’s Police Command to stop opposing groups from holding rallies in Lekki and any other parts of Lagos. Odumosu said the security intelligence gathered by the Police Command indicated the “Occupy Lekki Toll Gate” protest and planned counter rallies would degenerate into a breakdown of law and order, stressing that the police will not allow any group to carry out the action. The police chief said adequate arrangements on the deployment of security forces had been put in place to stop any violent protest, gathering and procession in any part of Lagos, stressing that the Police Command would rise in protection of law-abiding residents from any form of violence. He said: “The Police Command has gathered credible intelligence that some hidden agents of destruction and shadow parties that orchestrated the last #EndSARS violence have concluded plans to cause another mayhem in Lagos and spread the same to other parts of the country, tactically and spontaneously, like the recent violence. “Premised on the available intelligence and due threat analyses carried out on the planned protest, the Police Command perceives such proposed protest as a calculated attempt to cause pandemonium and massive destruction of lives and properties under whatever guise; such will not be allowed to hold in Lagos.” Odumosu appealed to the general public to advise their wards to ignore mobilisation for the protest and gathering in flouting the existing peace and security situation of the state. He said the police would resist the protest with necessary force, while respecting the rights of law-abiding citizens. On his part, Omotoso said the steps taken by the state government on the planned protest was not to take away the fundamental rights of the citizens, but to prevent re-enactment of the event that led to destruction of public and private assets last October. The commissioner sued for peace, urging the organisers of the planned protests and rallies to allow the Lagos Judicial Panel of Inquiry conclude its investigation on what transpired between the military and #EndSARS protesters.   ...Reads riot act, vows to arrest, prosecute protesters The Lagos State government Thursday read the riot act to those planning to organise the second phase of the #EndSARS protest at Lekki on Saturday to desist or face the wrath of the law. The government also said that the protest will… February 11, 2021 In "Metro & Crime" Govt not behind attack –Commissioner Demonstrators barricade National Assembly FCTA bans streets protests in Abuja Lawyers, students, artists join protests in Delta, Edo, Ebonyi Again, violence erupted in Lagos yesterday as armed thugs unleashed mayhem on the 'End SARS' protesters. The attack occurred at Alausa, the seat of the Lagos… October 16, 2020 In "Metro & Crime" For two weeks, Nigerian youths, hitherto docile and submissive, held the country, nay the whole world, spellbound with their resolute protests seeking an end to police brutality and bad governance. But after sponsored thugs hijacked the protests, Nigeria was pushed to the precipice, writes ABIODUN BELLO “It hit all of… October 29, 2020 In "Insight"