 Governor Bala Mohammed of Bauchi State on Friday defended his comment about armed herders, explaining that he used AK-47 as a figure of speech for protection.
“It is a figure of speech to show you the despondence, the desperation and frustration and the agony that this particular person is exposed to by his own people, by his own tribe and by other tribes who have all seen him as a criminal and therefore, he has the inalienable right to protect himself,” the governor said during an interview on Channels Television’s Sunrise Daily.
Governor Bala argues that herdsmen are exposed and need to protect themselves.
“What I said in that context, I was addressing the media people. And the topic was the use of the media to foster national unity and I was trying to situate the problem,” the former Minister of Federal Capital Territory (FCT) explained.
“The Fulani man is so exposed, dehumanised, demonised in fact, because he is being seen as a bandit and so, anywhere he goes, he is being pursued. Not only in the southwest or the southeast, even in the north because he is in the cattle route, his commonwealth which I call his cows, are being taken and rustled and of course, sometimes, they are fined beyond your imagination. If one cow strays into the farm because the cattle route has been taken away illegally without the authority giving permission, he will be fined seriously, mercilessly.
“And so, he is exposed and then he has no option but to protect himself. We have so many vigilante groups in Nigeria even at the level of government, subregional groups, sub nationals are establishing vigilante groups to make sure that their communities are protected. Why wouldn’t the Fulani man protect himself? And if he carries a gun in order to protect himself, it may not be a legal carriage, it may be legal. He may also register and carry it to protect himself.”  Idowu Nasir A Yoruba socio-cultural group, Yoruba Youth Forum (YYF) has condemned comment by Bauchi State Governor, Bala Mohammed that Fulani herdsmen had the rights to carry arms, describing it as not only unfortunate but reckless.   Mohammed had Thursday last week said AK-47-bearing herdsmen were being forced to do… February 16, 2021 In "News" Bauc hi Bauchi State Governor, Bala Mohammed, has backtracked on his stand of Fulani herders bearing firearms, saying his statement was intended to caution all stakeholders to guard against escalating the tension, particularly in the North, having been working round the clock to avert reprisal actions that could throw the… February 16, 2021 In "News" In the past one month, the atmosphere in the country has been charged to a melting point, following the activities of herdsmen and the orgy of violence from some criminal elements among them.   From the South-West to the East, South- South to the North and even to the nation’s… February 15, 2021 In "Editorial"