…commends Adeoye’s election as commissioner  President Muhammadu Buhari has warned that the African Union (AU) would become stale unless efforts are made to overhaul it in order to make it more result oriented.  The President said this yesterday at an ongoing two-day virtual 34th Summit of the AU. Buhari called for a comprehensive reform of the structures and operations of the African Union, to make it more functional in meeting targets.  He said: “As your excellences are no doubt aware, global realities demand that the AU be overhauled, if it must remain relevant in intergovernmental processes. We must work concertedly to ensure a productive, self-sufficient and purpose driven organization that will fully serve the interests of the people.  “As we commence the operationalization of this new structure and system, Nigeria demands a truly reformed, efficient and effective AU Commission, one that is fully committed to the discharge of its duties and responsibilities.’’ The President commended President Paul Kagame of Rwanda for presenting a special report on the need to reform the AU.  Buhari also appreciate  the support of Heads of State and Government of the African Union in the election of Ambassador Bankole Adeoye as Commissioner, Political Affairs, Peace and Security.  The President noted, with gratitude, the overwhelming and historic endorsement of the ambassador with 55 votes, an indication that all the members voted, while congratulating the career diplomat, who also serves as Nigeria’s Permanent Representative to the AU and UNECA.  He urged Adeoye to deploy his knowledge and experience in foreign policy and diplomacy, particularly on bilateral and multilateral issues, to bring value to the new position, with an assurance of the country’s support.  The President congratulated all elected members of the African Union Commission, which include the Chairman, Moussa Faki Mahamat (Chad), and Deputy Chairman, Dr. Monique Nsanzabaganwa (Rwanda).  ....says Buhari becoming excessively repressive     Academic Staff Union of Universities (ASUU) yesterday condemned the murder of harmless and largely peaceful #EndSARS protesters in Lekki, Lagos, and the other parts of the country, describing it as crime against humanity.   The Union stated that killings in the ongoing protest… October 22, 2020 In "News" The Africa Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (Africa CDC) has commended the African Export-Import Bank (Afreximbank) for filling the financial gap with regard to accessing COVID-19 vaccine across the continent.   Director of the Africa CDC, John Nkengasong, made the commendation shortly after the announcement that the African Export-Import… January 25, 2021 In "Business" The Heads of State and Government of the African Union (AU) have elected H.E. Felix- Antoine Tshisekedi Tshilombo, President of the Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC), as the new Chairperson of the African Union for the year 2021. The event took place on Saturday February 6, 2021 during the ongoing… February 7, 2021 In "News"