…as Reps grill CDS, service chiefs Minister of Defence, Maj-Gen. Bashir Magashi (rtd) has assured that the schools children and others abducted in in Kagara, Niger State will be rescued like the Kankara schoolboys in Katsina. Magashi gave the assurance yesterday while answering questions from journalists at the screening of the Chief of Defence Staff (CDS) and Service Chiefs screening by a special committee of the House of Representatives at the National Assembly. He said: “We have demonstrated our ability to take on the challenge. We have done it in Katsina when children were kidnapped, within two days, we got them back. “Hopefully, this time, we will do the same thing to get the captives back. We are planning,” he stated. Giving his vision, the nominee for CDS, Maj.-Gen. Irabor, said he intended to have a leadership focus and philosophy to ensure professional armed forces that meet Nigeria’s security needs. On his part, the nominee for Chief of Army Staff (COAS), Maj-Gen. Ibrahim Attahiru, said his focus would be to reposition the Nigerian Army to meet its mandate, ensure continuous leadership development among officers and men as well as innovation to meet the demands of the 21st century. Also, the nominee for Chief of Naval Staff, Rear Admiral Awwal Gambo, said despite his experience, he would need a great deal of the loyalty, cooperation and support of all the officers and men of the Nigerian Navy to succeed, saying he would re-energise the navy to make her meet her needs. Similarly, the nominee for Chief of Air Staff, AVM Isiaka Amao, who is a fighter and instructor pilot, said his focus would be to ensure the integrity of the Air Force and to enhance and sustain airmen’s capabilities, with focus on purposeful training and human capacity development, innovative efforts, a disciplined workforce and boost morale to improve personnel welfare.   Governor Aminu Bello Masari of Katsina State, yesterday, said that 333 out of the 839 students abducted from Government Science Secondary School (GSSS), Kankara were still missing.   Masari, who disclosed this when a Federal Government delegation paid him a sympathy visit, said the bandits were yet to contact anybody,… December 14, 2020 In "News" President Muhammadu Buhari has charged the newly appointed Service Chiefs to brace up for the responsibilities of safeguarding Nigeria's territorial integrity, stressing that the country is currently in a state of emergency. Buhari gave the charge during his inaugural meeting with the Service Chiefs yesterday at the Presidential Villa, Abuja.… January 28, 2021 In "News" The Minister of Defence, Maj.-Gen Bashir Magashi (rtd) has reiterated his determination to reposition the nation’s defence and security architecture towards addressing the prevailing security challenges.   The Special Assistant Media and Publicity to the Minister, Mr Mohammad Abdulkadri, in a statement on Saturday said that Magashi stated this during… August 23, 2020 In "News"