Nigeria’s main opposition party, the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has advised the All Progressives Congress (APC) to face governance and stop poaching its members. PDP National Chairman, Prince Uche Secondus, who spoke when party leaders visited former Minister of Aviation, Chief Femi Fani-Kayode, told the APC that “jumping around and looking for critical stakeholders of our party to poach will not resolve the issue of security or economy.” Rumours were making the round that Fani-Kayode was about leaving PDP to APC after his visit to the Kogi State governor, Alhaji Yahaya Bello and the party’s Chairman, Caretaker/ Extraordinary National Convention Planning Committee, Governor Mai Mala Buni. Secondus, who described the former minister as a brand, said he assured them that he remains a member of PDP. “Our brother is firm and a man of his word. There is no amount of trick that will make him sway otherwise. “He is firmly with PDP and we are back to business while we prepare for 2023. “The most important thing is that the country must be one and the APC government headed by President Muhammadu Buhari should resolve the issue of security. “They are aware that security has broken down, economy has broken down. They should face that business with which they are elected. I believe that this country belongs to all of us and we need unity to move it forward,” he added. Fani-Kayode, who expressed delight at the visit, said the meeting was fruitful, adding that whatever issue that might have caused misunderstanding has been resolved. “We are moving forward as one. I never left the PDP, I am in PDP and am proud to be here,” he said. The former minister praised the quality leadership of the PDP, which he said, had been able to hold the party together. “They have gone all over the country, reaching out to people, keeping us together, save our party when it was almost taken away from us. They have done a very good job and am very proud of them,” he added. Chairman of former Ministers’ Forum, Tanimu Kabiru Turaki, who was part of the meeting, said the party is united.   The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has advised the All Progressives Congress (APC) to face governance and stop poaching its members. PDP National Chairman, Prince Uche Secondus, who spoke when party leaders visited former Minister of Aviation, Chief Femi Fani-Kayode, told the APC that "jumping around and looking for critical stakeholders… February 25, 2021 In "News" National Chairman of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Prince Uche Secondus, has said external forces are behind the alleged crisis in the party. Secondus, who spoke to journalists in Abuja, yesterday, accused the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) of sponsoring crisis in PDP.   "There is no crisis in the… February 16, 2021 In "News" The political romance and possible defection of former Minister of Aviation, Femi Fani-Kayode, to the ruling APC has generated controversies. In this report, WALE ELEGBEDE x-rays the PDP chieftain's recent dalliance with opposition leaders and its twists and turns   Chief Femi Fani-Kayode is not your regular politician. His private… February 15, 2021 In "Politics"