 President Joe Biden on Thursday told Russia that the United States would no longer be “rolling over” in the face of aggressive action by Moscow, declaring a new, tough approach by Washington.
Visiting the State Department, Biden also promised to repair alliances and engage with the world again. “American leadership” must meet rising authoritarianism and unite with partners to combat global challenges such as the coronavirus pandemic or climate change, he said.
Biden, as expected, adopted a sterner tone with Russian President Vladimir Putin than his predecessor, Donald Trump, reports Reuters.
“I made it clear to President Putin in a manner very different from my predecessor, that the days the United States rolling over in the face of Russia’s aggressive actions, interfering with our elections, cyber attacks, poisoning citizens are over,” Biden said. The two leaders spoke by phone in late January.
“We will not hesitate to raise the cost on Russia and defend our vital interests and our people, and we will be more effective in dealing with Russia when we work in coalition and coordination with other like-minded partners,” he said.
As president, Trump came under intense criticism that he was too friendly with Moscow, amid U.S. intelligence findings that Russia interfered in the 2016 presidential election to boost his chances of winning the White House.
Washington and Moscow disagree on a wide range of issues such as Russia’s military ambitions in Ukraine and Georgia, the alleged poisoning of Kremlin critic Alexei Navalny, and last year’s cyberattack on U.S. government agencies that Washington blames on Russia.
Biden, calling the recent jailing of Navalny “politically motivated,” said Washington was deeply concerned and repeated a U.S. call for his release.
Despite their disagreements, the two countries earlier this week extended the New START arms control treaty for five years, preserving the last treaty limiting deployments of the world’s two largest strategic nuclear arsenals.  Russian President Vladimir Putin on Tuesday congratulated Joe Biden on his victory in the U.S. presidential election, after Biden won the state-by-state Electoral College vote that officially determines the U.S. presidency, the Kremlin said. The Kremlin had said it would wait for the official results of the election… December 15, 2020 In "News" The shocker pulled by the candidate of the Democratic Party, Joe Biden, in the just-concluded presidential election, Joe Biden, culminates a journey that began in 1970, when he was elected a New Castle County Councillor, Felix Nwaneri reports       The much expected presidential election in the United… November 10, 2020 In "Politics" World leaders spoke to President-elect Joe Biden on Thursday about cooperating on the coronavirus pandemic, climate change and other issues, even as President Donald Trump’s refusal to concede complicates the U.S. post-election transition. In his conversations with key Asian allies, Biden seemed intent on easing their uncertainties about a… November 12, 2020 In "News"