The Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC), has alerted the public on the existence of fake Twitter Accounts “supposedly” belonging to the new Chairman of the Commission, Mr. Abdulrasheed Bawa, saying three of them had attracted at least 500 unsuspecting followers in the last few days.  While dissociating Bawa from the said Twitter accounts, the Commission warned the public against falling prey to suspected fraudsters, whose aim is to defraud them.  The alarm was raised in a statement by the EFCC”s spokesperson, Mr. Wilson Uwujaren.  “The Economic and Financial Crimes Commission, EFCC, wishes to alert the public on the existence of fake Twitter Accounts supposedly belonging to the new executive chairman of the Commission, Mr. Abdulrasheed Bawa.  “Three of the fake accounts created in the last few days: @ AbdurasheedBawa,@Abdulr- Bawa and@AbdulrashidBaw1; have been attracting followers in droves, believing they were dealing with the EFCC boss.  “At least, more than 500 unsuspecting Nigerians have been hoodwinked by the promoters of these fake platforms,” the statement said. It added thus: “The Commission wishes to state that these Twitter Accounts do not belong to Mr. Bawa, and should be disregarded.   The Patriotic Front of Nigeria (PFN) has welcomed President Muhammadu Buhari's nomination of Abdulrasheed Bawa as Chairman of the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC).  The group said the president has again confirmed his commitment to rid the nation of corruption by entrusting a youth to lead the war.  In a… February 16, 2021 In "News" …says, ‘I never sold seized assets’ Chairman-designate of the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC), Mr. Abdulrasheed Bawa, has pledged to reposition the agency to deliver on its core mandate of fighting corruption. Bawa made the pledge while being screened by the members of the upper chamber of the National… February 25, 2021 In "News" The EFCC was created as an anti-graft agency by the EFCC (Establishment) Act of 2004. Section 2(3) thereof gives the President absolute powers to appoint the EFCC Chairman. However, this appointment is subject to confirmation by the Senate.   Without such a confirmation, the appointment remains inchoate and incomplete. The… February 21, 2021 In "Back Page Columnist"