Muhammad Kabir, Kano  The Kano State government has obtained a court order for the permanent closure of Sheik Abduljabar Mosque and all other religious centres owned by him and also restraining him from further preaching in the state. The order also directed all security agencies to arrest and deal decisively with anybody who tried to flout the order. The court order which was obtained by the Office of the State Attorney General, Barrister MA Lawan, was sort at the Chief Magistrate’s Grade One Court 12 Gidan Murtala Kano, presided over by Mohammed Jibrin. The Chief Magistrate gave the order after listening to the oral ex parte application of Wada A Wada (PSC) from the office of the Attorney General of Kano State, applying for an order of his court to close the Sheik Abduljabar Mosque and all other religious Centres and stop him from further preaching. The order also directed the Police, DSS and other security agencies to ensure full compliance with the order and also directed them to deal decisively with anybody who tried to flout it.  Muhammad Kabir, Kano Following the decision of the Kano State government to bar Sheik Abduljabar Nasiru Kabara from preaching, praying in his mosque and other Islamic activities, the Department of State Services (DSS) has drafted armed personnel to the area to ensure no law is broken. The state government… February 4, 2021 In "Metro & Crime" • PENGASSAN, NUPENG, others gear up for action Despite two court orders obtained by the Federal Government to stop their proposed industrial action, the Nigeria Labour Congress (NLC) and the Trade Union Congress (TUC) have continued mobilising their affiliate unions and the civil society groups for the scheduled strike on… September 26, 2020 In "News" AKEEM NAFIU writes that Lawyers at the weekend took a swipe at the nation’s Justice Minister and Attorney-General of the Federation, Abubakar Malami (SAN) for not acting on a court's order directing him to institute legal action against the legality of states’ pension laws. To the lawyers, the AGF's… November 23, 2020 In "Law"