Suspected Fulani herdsmen invaded Ijugbere axis of Owo Local Government Area of Ondo State at the weekend and killed three farmers working on their farms.  This came a few hours after bandits attacked men of the Amotekun Corps at Ute in the same Owo Local Government Area.  The herders reportedly killed the farmers in the forest reserves on Saturday. Governor Oluwarotimi Akeredolu had already given herdsmen a quit notice from government reserves, banned underage and night grazing in all parts of the state.  The Senior Special Assistant to the governor on Agriculture, Mr. Akin Olotu, confirmed the killing via a text message yesterday. Olotu described the killing as unfortunate.  He said: “Those blaming Governor Akeredolu for saying the illegal occupants should vacate the forest should bury their heads in shame.”  The state Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO), Mr. Tee-Leo Ikoro, did not respond to several calls and text messages sent to him on the killing.   Suspected Fulani herdsmen invaded Ijugbere axis of Owo Local Government Area of Ondo State at the weekend and killed three farmers working in their farmland.   This came barely some hours after suspected armed bandits attacked men of the Amotekun security network in Ute in the same Owo Local Government Area… February 14, 2021 In "Metro & Crime" Akeredolu, herders bicker over Forest reserves Many residents of Ondo State have been living in fear as a result of the activities of bandits masquerading as Fulani herdsmen who have killed and kidnapped for travelers for ransom.   Babatope Okeowo reports that the seven days ultimatum given by Governor Oluwarotimi… January 27, 2021 In "Mega City" Suspected killer Fulani herdsmen attacked men of the Security Network, Amotekun killing two of them at the Government Forest Reserve located at Ago Sanusi along Ute Road in Owo, Owo Local Government Area of Ondo State. Aside the two persons reportedly killed by the killer Fulani herdsmen, the leader of… February 12, 2021 In "Metro & Crime"