 Johnchuks Onuanyim, Abuja Director General of the Progressives Governors Forum (PGF) Salihu Lukman has warned the Caretaker/Extraordinary National Convention Planning Committee of the All Progressives Congress (APC) not to register the former Aviation Minister, Chief Femi Fani-Kayode without clearance from the Caucus of the party. He described the likes of Fani-Kayode as a “bad baggage” for the APC.
Fani-Kayode has been a major critic against the President Muhammadu Buhari-led APC and other activities of the party.
However, recently he met with the Chairman of the APC Contact and Mobilization Committee and Governor of Kogi State, Yahaya Bello and the the Caretaker Committee Chairman and Yobe State governor, Mai Mala Buni, which has instigated suspicion of his joining APC.
But reacting to this, thePGF DG said President Muhammadu Buhari will not be favourably disposed to it, adding that  such consideration will be stretching the trust of party members beyond acceptable limits.
In a statement to journalists in Abuja, Lukman recalled Fani-Kayode’s many derogatory statements, including open letters against the President and one of the APC national leaders recently.  Johnchuks Onuanyim, Abuja     To address the crisis of herdsmen and farmers and other insecurity issues in the country, the Director General of the Progressive Governors Forum (PGF), Salihu Lukman has called for the implementation of the All Progressives Congress (APC) True Federalism report. Lukman, who made the call… January 25, 2021 In "News" Kogi State Governor, Yahaya Bello, yesterday received in audience former Minister of Aviation, Chief Femi Fani Kayode at his Abuja residence. Bello commended Fani- Kayode for the visit, describing it as a welcome move.   The governor said the task of nation building is a collective one and that hands… February 9, 2021 In "News" The Director General of the Progressive Governors Forum (PGF), Salihu Lukman has advised against electing new National Working Committee (NWC) of the All Progressives Congress (APC). Lukman, in a letter he wrote to the Caretaker/Extraordinary National Convention Planning Committee (CEONCPC) chairman and Yobe State Governor, Mai Mala Buni on the… August 12, 2020 In "Politics"