 The Police Command in Adamawa has banned unauthorised use of sirens, tinted glass and covered number plates in the state.
The ban is contained in a statement issued by DSP Suleiman Nguroje, the spokesman of the command, on Tuesday.
Nguroje said that those acts could mislead security personnel as well as create fear in the minds of peace loving people of the state, reports the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN).
He said that the command was working with sister security agencies to put in place a robust crime prevention strategies such as visibility policing, foot and vehicular patrols.
Nguroje also said that the command had embarked on stop and search, constant raid on suspected criminal hideouts, traffic decongestions and rapid response among others.
“The Adamawa State Police Command wishes to assure all that 2021 would be peaceful as adequate security measures had been put in place,’’ he stated.
He called on the people to join hands with the police in keeping the state safe and to report any suspicious person or group to the nearest police station.  Police in Adamawa said on Thursday in Yola that they have recovered additional 30 tractors, 107 bags of fertilisers, 28 hand tractors and 29 cartons of agro chemicals looted by some hoodlums who hijacked the #EndSARS protest. The police announced only on Wednesday that they arrested 238 suspects from whom… October 29, 2020 In "Metro & Crime" Lagos State Police Command said it had beefed up security around churches, mosques and public installations across the state over alleged planned bombing of federal and state facilities as well as worship centres by some terrorists.   The Department of State Services (DSS) had on Tuesday alerted Nigerians about plans… December 24, 2020 In "Metro & Crime" Security agents have arrested 924 suspects for allegedly looting private and government properties in 10 states and the Federal Capital Territory (FCT). The suspects were apprehended in the last couple of days for the ongoing looting and destruction across several states of the federation as fallout of the protests seeking… October 27, 2020 In "News"