Former MTN Project Fame contestant, Carolyne Naomi has released the visuals for her latest inspirational music, ‘Boss: Oga at the Top’.  According to the singer, the song is coming at a time when it feels like there is no end to the pandemic, our trust in God and humanity is one thing we keep close to us. A versatile vocalist and instrumentalist, Carolyne Naomi was born and raised in Lagos. Known as ‘the guitar girl’, Naomi picked up a guitar as a teenager. With her new instrument, she wrote more songs, performed on different stages, becoming a contestant on MTN Project Fame. She has shared the stage with international acts – Burna Boy, Wizkid, Yemi Alade, and many more. The video was shot in Minneapolis, Minnesota where Carolyne is currently based by video director, Matt Wales Media. The choreography is by David ‘The Crown’ Stalter Jr. The song is produced by Tolu for Loud Cry Beats and mixed by Dr. Santy for 1717 Mixing. The song, she says, among other things, seeks to elevate moods, and drive away despondency while urging listeners to seek the face of God in the midst of challenges.   Oyinkanade, one of Nigeria’s most versatile music artistes has gone through a journey of constant reinvention. When YUSUFF ADEBAYO caught up with him, the soulful singer, reminisces on life before the Project Fame show that propelled him into stardom, the collaboration between him and YBNL boss, Olamide, how he deals… February 27, 2021 In "Arts & Entertainments" The reality TV show, MTN Y’ello Star, is set to make a difference in the music industry as it seeks to produce more stars. The MTN Y’ello Star project aims to nurture talents and establish wellrounded individuals who will take the world by storm  and debunk the theories of TV… October 13, 2020 In "News" Quizzed by show host, Ebuka Obi- Uchendu about how he feels just few minutes after he was announced winner of the fifth season of the Big Brother Naija reality TV Show, Laycon said: “I just came here to promote my music.” It seems like a sentiment driven by the ecstasy… October 3, 2020 In "Arts & Entertainments"