*Managerless Bournemouth shock Burnley Scott McTominay scored in extra time as Manchester United beat West Ham to reach the quarter-finals of the FA Cup.
Neither side could be separated in a drab 90 minutes in which both looked to be suffering from the effects of a packed and relentless season.
But McTominay, who came off the bench towards the end of the second half, broke the deadlock in the seventh minute of extra time with a snap shot from Marcus Rashford’s pass.
Until then West Ham’s best hope of winning appeared be via a penalty shootout, having failed to manage a shot on target in normal time.
Meanwhile, managerless Bournemouth reached the quarter-finals of the FA Cup for the first time in 64 years with victory at Premier League Burnley.
Sam Surridge put the Championship club ahead after connecting with Jack Stacey’s low cross, reports the BBC.
Junior Stanislas added the second from the penalty spot after Surridge was fouled.
Bournemouth, who have won both of their games under caretaker-manager Jonathan Woodgate, were deserved winners.
On a bad night for the Clarets, they were forced to make a late change when it was pointed out by a TV reporter that defender Erik Pieters, who was named in the starting line-up, had been booked in the previous two rounds and was therefore suspended.
Bournemouth keeper Asmir Begovic saved from Matej Vydra and Dwight McNeil, while Jay Rodriguez blazed a great chance over from close range.
But the Cherries, who sacked Jason Tindall last week, were well organised and are in the quarter-finals for only the second time in their history.
They made the breakthrough after David Brooks found Stacey, who crossed for Surridge to score from inside the six-yard area.
Burnley keeper Bailey Peacock-Farrell saved a header from team-mate Dale Stephens which was heading for the net.
Stanislav’s late penalty ended any hope of a Burnley comeback and Bournemouth find themselves one win away from a semi-final at Wembley.
The draw for the quarter-finals is on Thursday, with matches to take place across the weekend of March 20-21.
RESULTS
Man United 1 – 0 West Ham
Burnley 0 – 2 Bournemouth  Managerless Bournemouth reached the quarter-finals of the FA Cup for the first time in 64 years with victory at Premier League Burnley. Sam Surridge put the Championship club ahead after connecting with Jack Stacey's low cross, reports the BBC. Junior Stanislas added the second from the penalty spot after… February 9, 2021 In "Sports" *Man Utd beat Liverpool in thriller *Leicester overcome Brentford scare as Burnley cruise past Fulham *Abraham hat-trick sees off Luton Everton eased past Championship strugglers Sheffield Wednesday to reach the fifth round of the FA Cup. Dominic Calvert-Lewin netted his 15th goal of the season by sliding in to convert… January 25, 2021 In "News" Manchester United secured a place in the Champions League at the expense of Leicester City with victory at King Power Stadium. Ole Gunnar Solskjaer's side needed a point from this decisive final-day meeting to confirm a place in the top four - and break the hearts of the Foxes,… July 26, 2020 In "Sports"