Musician and manager of late reggae icon, Majek Fashek, Omenka Uzoma Day popularly known as Uzo has dropped a 2021 music video single he titled, ‘Celebrate!  ‘ StillmourningMajek, UzowhoisMD/CEO, Miracle Day Music known as ‘Home of Superstars’ seems to have re-branded and has gone back to being an artiste. Talking about his latest effort shot in Capetown, South Africa and directed by Nani Chehore, a Zimbabwean, Uzo says: “The world is changing and perhaps might never become what it used to be. New realities, fears, suspicions and confusion is causing anxieties and worries. Keeping safe during a pandemic, staying safe amidst news of banditry and kidnapping, news of insurrection are all countless worries we deal with on a regular basis that sometimes we forget to acknowledge some of our other daily blessings.  Renewed hope of a new dawn, joy of a new born, enjoyed friendship, loving families and many more positives vibes are some of the things we take for granted while we focus so much on little challenges. TodayIimploreyouto‘Celebrate’yourlittle wins, be thankful for the privilege of life and living, and rekindle the hope for a brighter tomorrow. ” Recall that Uzo in November last year released two singles with their videos: ‘Walk Without You’ (a tribute to Majek Fashek) and ‘God bless Lagos’…dedicated to the aquatic city Lagos  The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) on Wednesday in Enugu declared that it cannot conduct the Isi-Uzo State Constituency by-election in Enugu State without the presence of police personnel. Dr Emeka Ononamadu, Enugu State Resident Electoral Commissioner, stated this while speaking at the consultative meeting with media practitioners and Civil… November 12, 2020 In "News" Director-General of Voice of Nigeria (VON), Mr. Osita Okechukwu yesterday announced that the All Progressives Congress (APC) would zone the presidential position of the party to South-East in 2023 for equity, justice and good conscience which the party was known for.   Okechukwu, who spoke at the APC expanded caucus… September 28, 2020 In "News" The President of the Theatre Arts and Movie Practitioners Association of Nigeria (TAMPAN), Bolaji Amusan, a.k.a Mr. Latin, has described the late Ogun Majek has a leading light in the film industry till his death and a thorough professional. The veteran actor, Gbolagade Akinpelu, a.k.a Ogun Majek, died on Thursday… June 27, 2020 In "Arts & Entertainments"