Four men have reportedly gang-raped a teenage girl in Obi Local Government Area of Benue State.  The suspects defiled the girl on Monday and abandoned her in a pool of blood. The defilement caused the victim pains and her parents extreme agony. It was learnt that the suspected criminals had raped other young girls in the area, video-taped it and circulated the videos online.  In a swift reaction, Governor Samuel Ortom directed security operatives to launch a full-scale investigation tragthe incident to apprehend the suspects and bring them to book.  The state Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO), DSP Catherine Sewuese Anene, said the police were suspects were on the run but the police were on their trail. She said: “We have the report and we are working on arresting the suspects. “They raped a girl, not one of them, did a video on it and sent it online. Currently, all of them are at large but we are trailing them and we will ensure we get them.”  Meanwhile, Ortom, in a statement by his Chief Press Secretary (CPS), Mr. Terver Akase, condemned the incident and described it as barbaric, dehumanising and unfortunate. He stressed that the arrest and prosecution of the culprits would serve as deterrent to those who engaged in defiling minors and other crimes.  The governor charged the chairman of Obi Local Government and traditional rulers in the area to collaborate with security agencies to fish out the suspects and bring them to justice.  Ortom encouraged parents and guardians to closely monitor the movements of their children and report any case of rape to security operatives  *Ortom orders full scale investigation Four young men on Monday reportedly gang-raped a teenage girl in Obi Local Hovernment Area of Benue State.   The suspects defiled the girl and abandoned her in a pool of blood and her parents into extreme agony.   New Telegraph learnt that the suspected… February 9, 2021 In "Metro & Crime" A 16-year-old girl, Goodness, has narrated how a trader, Okwudili, and four cult members allegedly raped her after which they used a knife to write N50k on her body.   The girl narrated the incident after waking up from unconsciousness. She was said to have fainted while being raped. The… November 17, 2020 In "Metro & Crime" Four men have allegedly defiled a 15-year-old orphan at Abraka in the Ethiope East Local Government of Delta State. Three of the suspects, Godday Okpakolu, Solomon and Okpolor, all neighbours to the victim, reportedly gang-raped the teenage girl. Prior to this, the victim was allegedly raped by her uncle, identified… September 3, 2020 In "Metro & Crime"