National Drug Law Enforcement Agency (NDLEA) has uncovered a warehouse of compressed cannabis sativa worth N17 million in Abuja Estate, Port Harcourt, Rivers State.  Based on a tip-off, the NDLEA officers stormed the cannabis warehouse in the early hours of Saturday and recovered 23 bags of compressed blocks of cannabis sativa weighing 621 kilograms and 0.029kg of cocaine.  After evacuating the exhibits, the officers proceeded to the Slaughter area of Trans Amadi in the Port Harcourt metropolis where they also recovered 0.006kg of heroin and 0.048kg of methamphetamine.  The state NDLEA Commander, Rachael Shelleng, said three male suspects were apprehended in connection with the seizures and taken into custody for further investigation. Shelleng said both Abuja Estate and Slaughter areas of Port Harcourt had been identified as notorious spots for illicit drug peddling.  She added that the agencY  would stop at nothing to ensure that the black spots and indeed the entire Rivers State was sanitised of illicit drug menace.  Commending the commander, men and officers of the state command for the effort, the NDLEA Chairman/ Chief Executive, Brig. General Mohamed Buba Marwa (rtd), directed them and their colleagues across the country and special commands to intensify the heat and take the battle to the criminals’ hideouts.  He said: “With the support of all stakeholders, this war is winnable.  The arrest a few days ago in Lagos of a suspect who has been on the run for over 10 years confirms that the maxim of the new NDLEA, that the criminals can only run, they can’t hide, is working, because we’ll smoke them out of their hiding places  …arrests trafficker at Lagos airport Officers of the National Drug Law Enforcement Agency (NDLEA) have discovered a warehouse in Lafia, Nasarawa State, filled with cannabis. This came a few days after the NDLEA smashed three cocaine cartels at the Murtala Mohammed International Airport (MMIA), Lagos. At least 45 bags of… February 3, 2021 In "Metro & Crime" Operatives of theNationalDrug Law Enforcement Agency (NDLEA), Ondo State Command, have arrested nine dealers of illicit drugs and seized from them a total of 1, 292 kilograms of cannabis sativa and its seeds. Announcing the huge seizure in a statement yesterday, the state Commander of the anti-drug agency, Mr. Haruna… February 20, 2021 In "News" ...arrests Indian, 89 others, recovers 614kg of hard drugs National Drug Law Enforcement Agency (NDLEA) has intercepted a container load of Tramadol at the Apapa Port in Lagos State. The NDLEA officials also arrested 90 people, among them an Indian, during raids of drug cartels in parts of the state… February 25, 2021 In "Metro & Crime"