To further enable its customers do more business conveniently and efficiently, innovative and digitallyled financial institution, Wema Bank Plc, has added more features to its corporate internet banking platform, ALAT For Business.  ALAT For Business is the bank’s revamped corporate internet banking platform designed to help customers manage their business account better and stay on top of their finances anywhere.  To ensure customers use the platform with ease, Wema Bank has now introduced a debit card. Some of the additional functions customers can perform with the corporate debit card include card control, multiple users tracking transactions and the ability to place the card on the ‘hotlist’ if stolen or compromised.  Commenting on the new feature, Head, ALAT for Business, Samuel Robson, explained that it was part of Wema Bank’s efforts to make banking easy, efficient and convenient for customers. “Our role as a leading digital bank is to ensure ease and convenience for all our customers while maximising efficiency in performing transactions.  This new Corporate Debit Card function is another leap in the right direction. Our Corporate Debit Cards enable you to pay bills, make purchases and withdrawals,” Robson said.  He added that with the new feature, tracking and monitoring of all business transactions will be accessible even for multiple signatory accounts as the administrator will initiate card request and select a user that will be mapped to the card.  The new feature on corporate debit cards further cements Wema Bank’s position as an innovative financial institution offering customers more in the “New Normal” era caused by COV ID-19.  Wema Bank recently shortlisted ten finalists to take part in the Virtual Bootcamp for its Hackaholics (2.0) Accelerator Program slated to start on the 18th of January 2021  Wema Bank Plc has introduced its upgraded mobile app - ALAT 4.0 to enable customers remain connected to do much more. A unique app that provides seamless access to an array of exciting features serves as a platform where customers can personalize offerings to meets their frequent financial and lifestyle… September 24, 2020 In "Business" Deputy Managing Director, Wema Bank Plc, Moruf Oseni, has urged the bank’s numerous customers to key into the improved version of ALAT and enjoy limitless advantages it offers. Speaking recently on the launch of new features ALAT, Oseni said with upgrade, users can now enjoy increased benefits and freedom of… September 25, 2020 In "Business" I n an efforts to sustain the fight against coronavirus pandemic ravaging the country, Wema Bank Plc has urged customers to continue to bank safely by using ALAT and its USSD platform, *945#.     Following increasing reports of positive COVID-19 cases, the bank has encouraged its customers to take… June 23, 2020 In "Business"