…NBF board member, Omo-Agege, hopeful  A Board member of the Nigeria Boxing Federation (NBF), Azanian Omo- Agege, has said the country’s boxers have what it takes to make the 2020 Tokyo Olympic Games despite the cancellation of the final boxing qualifier by the International Olympic Committee (IOC) expected to have taken place in Paris.  The cancellation of the qualifiers came as a result of COVID-19 restrictions and some other logistics with IOC looking forward to using rankings by continents to qualify athletes for the Games.  Speaking on a radio programme monitored in Lagos recently, Omo-Agege said he was not aware of the postponement but of the opinion that the country’s boxers can make it to Tokyo through rankings.  “The Federation has not been officially informed but I have been hearing it about it on the news,” he said.  “However, I believe the qualifiers can be moved to other regions of the world, especially regions that are having lower rate of COVID- 19 cases.  “If it is going to be about rankings, I am sure our boxers are good to go especially from the continent, although I am of the opinion that the qualifiers might still come up in other region.”  After cancelling the qualifiers, the IOC revealed that the 53 spots for the Games would be based on rankings as per each continent. Meanwhile, the NBF have pulled out of another championship in Senegal due to lack of funds.  Last week, the Olympic Games qualifiers for the boxing event scheduled for Paris, France, were cancelled due to the effects of COVID-19 second wave in Europe and other parts of the world.   It was a sad development for the Nigeria’s boxers warming up to be part of the qualifiers… February 24, 2021 In "Editorial" Nigeria made her debut at the Olympics in Finland at the Helsinki Games in 1952. No medal was won by the country at the big global event, same as in Melbourne 1956 in Australia and in Rome, Italy, at the 1960 Games. However at the Tokyo games in 1964, the… February 20, 2021 In "Sports" The 2021 edition of the Access Bank Lagos City Marathon has been moved from February 13, to April 10, according to the Project Consultant Bukola Olopade, in a statement released on Monday.   “On behalf of our Host City, Lagos, the Center of Excellence, our Headline Sponsor, Access Bank and… February 2, 2021 In "News"