 Lady Gaga’s two stolen bulldogs, snatched in a violent abduction that left the pets’ caretaker shot in the chest this week in Hollywood, were turned over to police on Friday and have been reunited with the pop singer’s representatives, police said.
The safe return of Koji and Gustav came hours after Gaga, who was filming a movie in Rome when her pets were taken on Wednesday night, issued a plea on social media for “an act of kindness” to bring them home, reports Reuters.
A woman who authorities have not publicly identified brought the dogs to an LAPD station unharmed, and they were turned over to the musician’s representatives, according to a Los Angeles Police Department spokesman, Officer Mike Lopez.
Two men suspected of stealing the pets at gunpoint from their dogwalker, 30-year-old Ryan Fischer, remained at large, however, Lopez said.
In a message posted hours earlier on her Twitter and Instagram accounts, Gaga said her “heart is sick” over the violent robbery and vowed to pay $500,000 for the dogs’ safe return, including from anyone who had bought or found them.
“My beloved dogs Koji and Gustav were taken in Hollywood two nights ago,” she wrote in the post, alongside photos of the dogs. “I am praying my family will be whole again with an act of kindness.”
It was not immediately clear whether the woman who brought the dogs to the police on Friday will collect the reward.
Fischer was walking three of Gaga’s bulldogs in a residential area in Hollywood late on Wednesday when a car pulled up alongside them and two men demanded he turn over the animals, police said in a statement.
The dog walker was shot once by the assailants, who drove off with two of the dogs. A third escaped and was later found by police.
The singer heaped praise on Fischer for risking his “life to fight for our family,” adding: “You’re forever a hero.”
Fischer is expected to make a full recovery, his family told celebrity website TMZ on Friday.  ...says he's making progress in  rescue efforts     Governor Aminu Masari of Katsina State has told President Muhammmadu Buhari that the bandits who kidnapped over 300 students of the Government Science Secondary School (GSSS), Kankara have made contact with his government.   The governor, according to a statement made… December 15, 2020 In "News" President Muhammadu Buhari yesterday issued a stern warning that the armed forces have the capacity to crush the bandits in their hideouts but were hamstrung by rules of engagements. He also hinted that fear of heavy casualties was stopping the Federal Government from crushing the bandits, who reportedly abducted over… February 27, 2021 In "News" A kidnapped victim, Mrs. Maris Ibe, has successfully outwitted her captors and walked them into a police net at Asaba, the Delta State capital. The woman, after she was abducted, pretended to understand and supported her captors’ reasons for taking to the crime. Although the kidnappers, Sunday Chukwu, 28, married… February 13, 2021 In "News"