Researchers have found that Vitamin C and zinc even in high doses, do not help fight off COVID- 19.  These were the results of the trial contained in an editorial published in the ‘JAMA Network Open’ journal. Findings from the trial, which looked at the benefits of the two supplements to people isolating at home with the virus, were so unimpressive that scientists decided to call it off altogether.  While both had proved popular in fighting off other viral colds and flu, they ‘failed to live up to their hype’, the ‘mailonline’ reported.  Three groups of 214 adults recovering from COVID- 19 at home took part in the trial, which saw them being given high doses of Vitamin C, high doses of zinc and both. A fourth group, meanwhile, received fever-reducing medications and were told to rest and hydrate, but did not take any of the supplements.  But scientists found no evidence of a reduction of COVID-19 symptoms in any of the first three groups. Furthermore, high doses actually went on to cause  unpleasant side effects for some, including nausea, diarrhoea and stomach cramps.  Previous research had found that as an antioxidant, Vitamin C played a crucial role in supporting the immune system and can shorten colds by 14 per cent in children and eight per cent in adults   Researchers in the United States (US) said older adults who took a daily multivitamin and mineral supplements with zinc and high amounts of vitamin C could experience sickness for shorter periods and with less severe symptoms. Their findings were published in the journal ‘Nutrients’. The 12-week study by Oregon State… August 20, 2020 In "News" Regina Otokpa, Abuja Clinical trials of a new coronavirus vaccine developed by the Oxford University has shown to be up to 90 per cent effective at preventing the virus infection. The researchers explained that their jab on the average, gives 70 per cent protection, when combining the results of two different dosing… November 23, 2020 In "News" Clinical trials of a new Coronavirus vaccine developed by pharmaceutical giant, AstraZeneca and the University of Oxford have shown to be up to 90 per cent effective at preventing the virus infection.   The researchers explained that their jab on the average, gives 70 per cent protection, when… November 24, 2020 In "News"