 The names of the abducted pupils and teachers of Government Science College,Kagara have been released.
Bandits had invaded Government Science College Kagara and abducted 27 students, 3 teachers, two non teaching staff and 9 family members of the staff staying in the quarters on Wednesday morning.
The names of the abducted teachers are: Hannatu Philip, Lawal Abdullahi and Dodo Fodio while the non teaching staff are Mohammed Musa and Faiza Mohammed.
The abducted family members are: Christiana Adama, Faith Adama, Maimuna Suleman, Nura Isah, Ahmad Isah, Khadizat Isah, Mohammed Mohammed, Aisha Isah and Saratu Isah.
The students are: Jamilu Isah, Shem Joshua, Abbas Abdullahi, Isah Abdullahi, Ezekeil Danladi, Haliru Shuibu, Mamuda Suleman, Danzakar Dauda, Abdulsamad Sanusi, Bashir Abbas.
Suleman Lawal, Abdullahi Adamu, Habakuk Augustine, Idris Mohammed, Musa Adamu, Abdulkarim Abdulrahman, Abubakar Danjumma, Abdullahi Abubakar, Bashir Kamalideen, Mohammed Salisu.
Yusuf M Kabir, Isah Abdullah Makusidi, Polineous Vicente, Lawal Bello, Mohammed K Shehu, Mubarak Sidi and Abdulsamad Nuhu.
The student shot and killed by the bandits in the school premises was Benjamin Habila.  The Senate on Wednesday asked President Muhammadu Buhari to declare a state of emergency on insecurity in the country. The resolution follows a motion by Senator Sani Musa on the abduction of students from the Government Science College Kagara Niger state. Senator Bima Enagi from Niger State in his… February 17, 2021 In "News" NSA, IGP, Ministers, others visit Kagara Govt vows to deploy Kankara strategy to free victims The Federal Government has declared that it will not surrender Nigeria's sovereignty to any individual or group disturbing the peace of the nation by unleashing terror on the people. National Security Adviser (NSA), Maj-Gen. Babagana… February 18, 2021 In "News" Northern governors, yesterday, said they were distressed and saddened by the spate of attacks and abductions, particularly yesterday’s abduction of some students, staff and families at the Government Science School, Kagara, in Niger State by suspected bandits. Chairman of Northern States Governors’ Forum and Governor of Plateau State, Simon Lalong,… February 18, 2021 In "News"