A total of 141,391 police officers and men were promoted to the next ranks, between January 2019 and now.  A breakdown of the lists indicated that 41,480 officers were elevated to the next ranks, while 99,911 inspectors and other rank and file also benefitted from the promotion exercises. Inspector-General of Police (IG), Mr. Mohammed Adamu, made the disclosure in Abuja, yesterday, at the decoration of some newly-promoted senior officers.  Adamu, who was granted a three-month tenure extension, after his expected retirement  on February 1, said promotion was a strategic management approach at motivation.  He said: “It is in cognizance of this fact that I have been collaborating with the Police Service Commission (PSC) in ensuring that appropriate processes are emplaced to identify and promptly elevate deserving officers for promotion. “This is a strategic management approach that is directed at motivating the workforce of the Nigerian Police in committing to the duty of addressing current and emerging internal security challenges.” The IG expressed the hope that “the newly-promoted officers fit properly” into his human capacity development vision.  Adamu, however, reminded the decorated officers that to whom much was given, much was expected. Present for decoration were seven Assistant Inspectors General of Police (AIGs), and seven Commissioners of Police (CPs).   A total of 141, 391 police officers and men have been promoted to the next ranks, between January 2019 and now. A break down of the lists indicated that 41, 480 officers were elevated to the next ranks, while 99, 911 Inspectors and other rank and file also benefitted from… February 9, 2021 In "News" The Inspector-General of Police (I-G), Mohammed Adamu, has said that a total of 41,863 police personnel had been promoted in the last 19 months. Adamu disclosed this on Monday during the decoration of 10 newly promoted Senior Officers in Abuja. “Since the inception of my administration as the I-G in January,… July 20, 2020 In "News" ...stands down elevation of 112 others The Police Service Commission (PSC), Friday, said it had approved the promotion of 175 senior police officers to the next ranks. It, however, stood down the elevation of a total of 112 other officers, over what it claimed, was the failure of the Inspector… October 2, 2020 In "News"