 Stephen Olufemi Oni, Ilorin Controversy has continued to trail the recent approval by the Kwara State government for the use of hijab in all grant aided schools in the state as proprietors of mission secondary schools in the state in conjunction with the Christian Association of Nigeria (CAN) have rejected its use in their schools, vowing to resist it.
The proprietors expressed dismay at the hastiness of the state government in arriving at its decision when the matter is still pending at the Supreme Court and ruling is yet to be made on the vexed issue and others by the apex court. At best, they argued, the state government ought to have maintained the status quo pending the apex court’s ruling.
It would be recalled that the state government had on Thursday granted approval to the wearing of hijab for students of grant-aided schools in the state.
But the proprietors in a communique read to journalists in Ilorin, the state capital, by Rev Victor Dada, said: “We condemn the use of hijab in Christian mission grant-aided schools in Kwara state as this will cause discrimination in schools and allow terrorists to easily identify our children and wards.
“Christian mission grant-aided schools should be returned to the owners promptly as most of these schools have churches besides them and unnecessary trespass may lead to break down of law and order. They, however, did not rule out legal action to ensure that this is realised.  Stephen Olufemi Oni, Ilorin   The Kwara State government has finally approved the use of hijaab in all public/grant-aided schools in the state. The state government's position was made known in a statement Thursday night by the Secretary to the State Government, Prof. Mamma Sabah Jibril, saying the state… February 26, 2021 In "Metro & Crime" Proprietors of Model Islamic schools in Kwara State yesterday expressed their readiness to reopen, saying that schools in the state are now safe to reopen. According to them, the partial reopening of schools for senior secondary certificate examinations had proved that the phobia about schools' reopening in the country was… September 17, 2020 In "News" Osun State government has warned public schools against violating the order of court that legalized use of hijab for female Muslim students in the state, insisting that the order was still in force. Coordinating Director, Ministry of Education, Mrs. Kehinde Olaniyan, in a circular released yesterday, noted that the issue… November 3, 2020 In "News"