…has collected 56.18m NIN Caleb Onwe, Abuja The Federal Government has announced that the ongoing National Identification Number (NIN) and Subscriber Identity Module (SIM) integration exercise has been extended by eight weeks, with a new deadline of April 6.
The Minister of Communications and Digital Economy,  Dr. Isa Pantami disclosed at the end the meeting of the Ministerial Taskforce on NIN-SIM registration late Monday.
According to him: “A total of 56.18 million NINs have been collected by the mobile network operators”
He added that: “Each NIN is usually tied to an average of three to four SIMs and this infers that the current figure accounts for a significant portion of the existing SIMs.  This number of NINs collected represents a significant increase when compared with the 47.8 million reported by the Technical Committee on January 18, 2021.”
While commended citizens for the  level of compliance already recorded, he also noted that government considered the extension of deadline to give Nigerians and legal residents more time to integrate their NIN with their SIMs.
He further disclosed that: “Over 1060 registration centres for NIN have been activated and made operational by NIMC across the country, while Mobile Network Operators (MNOs) have opened hundreds of centres and are rapidly deploying resources to open thousands of other NIN enrolment centres across states of the country.”
New Telegraph learnt that the meeting chaired by the minister was attended by key stakeholders, including the EVC/CEO of the Nigerian Communications Commission (NCC), DG/CEO of the National Identity Management Commission (NIMC), DG/CEO of the National Information Technology Development Agency (NITDA) various telecommunications companies and Association were also said to have been represented.  143.4m lines to be linked before February 9 deadline As Nigerians continue to struggle to enrol for the National Identity Number (NIN), the Federal Government has given an assurance that at least 143.4 million lines will be linked before the February 9 deadline. T his came as the telecommunications operators… January 20, 2021 In "News" The Nigerian Communications Commission (NCC) on Tuesday said over 47 million Nigerians have registered for the National Identity Numbers (NINs). NCC Director of Public Affairs, Dr. Ikechukwu Adinde, who disclosed this via a statement, said the figures represented the statistics collected by telecommunication mobile operators. Adinde is optimistic that… January 19, 2021 In "News" In about three weeks from now, the Federal Government may be carrying out its threat of blocking lines that are not linked with the National Identity Number (NIN). But beyond the blocking of lines, stakeholders fear many more Nigerians may have by that time contracted and down with the coronavirus… January 21, 2021 In "Business"