 Onyekachi Eze, Abuja  The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) said voter turnout in the country has been on downward swing over the last two electoral cycles. INEC Chairman, Prof. Mahmood Yakubu, at a consultative meeting with Civil Society Organisations (CSOs) in Abuja on Tuesday said the Commission recorded as low as 8.3 per cent voter turnout in an election conducted in an urban constituency with over 1.2 million registered voters. According to him, the average voter turnout during elections across the country recorded of recent by INEC was between 30 to 35 per cent. “This unfavourably compares to the average voter turnout of 65-70 per cent in other countries, even in the West Africa region,” Prof. Yakubu stated. He blamed this on number of factors including inadequate voter and civic education, ineffective voter mobilisation, fear of violence during elections, unfulfilled campaign promises by elected officials and low public trust in state institutions. He, however, noted that countries with higher percentages of voter turnout during elections have adequate and convenient voting locations for eligible voters, which, he added were periodically adjusted to reflect increase in voter population. Prof. Yakubu regretted that the nation’s present 119,973 polling units were made to serve 84,004,084 voters, instead of a projected population of 50 million voters in 1996 when they were created.   The introduction of technology in the conduct of elections by the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) in Nigeria has engendered credibility and sanctity of the electoral process, writes ONYEKACHI EZE       The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) is no doubt, on technology revolution. Since the introduction of the… October 11, 2020 In "Politics" The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) said polling units in the country have to be expanded to allow voters unhindered access to exercise their civic duties during elections. The last time new polling units were created was in 1996, which brought the number to the present 120, 000 polling units… February 6, 2021 In "News" The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) has identified areas of concern in the conduct of this year's Anambra governorship election.   This, according to Chairman of Information and Voter Education Committee, Festus Okoye, included expanding voter access to polling units, repeal and re-enactment of a new Electoral Act, deepening of… January 17, 2021 In "News"