 Obinwanne Okeke, better known as Invictus Obi, has received a 10-year jail term for fraud.
Okeke was arrested by the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) at Dulles International Airport while leaving the US over $11 million internet fraud in 2019.
Rebecca Smith, chief district judge of United States District Court for the Eastern District of Virginia, delivered the judgement on Monday.
Smith said the 33-year-old was jailed for his involvement in a computer-based intrusion fraud scheme that resulted in known losses of $11 million to his victims.
“Through subterfuge and impersonation, Obinwanne Okeke engaged in a multi-year global business email and computer hacking scheme that caused a staggering $11 million in losses to his victims,” Raj Parekh, acting US attorney for the Eastern District of Virginia, said.
“Today’s sentence further demonstrates EDVA’s and FBI’s worldwide reach in vigorously pursuing justice on behalf of American victims and others and holding international cybercriminals accountable, no matter where they commit their crimes.”
According to court documents, Okeke operated a group of companies known as the Invictus Group based in Nigeria and elsewhere.
As part of the scheme, Okeke and others engaged in an email compromise scheme targeting Unatrac Holding Limited, the export sales office for Caterpillar heavy industrial and farm equipment.
In April 2018, a Unatrac executive fell prey to a phishing email that allowed conspirators to capture login credentials. The conspirators sent fraudulent wire transfer requests and attached fake invoices.
Okeke participated in the effort to victimize Unatrac through fraudulent wire transfers totaling nearly $11 million, funds which were transferred overseas.
The Nigerian was once listed by Forbes as one of the 100 Most Influential Young Africans.  Obinwanne Okeke, a Nigerian entrepreneur better known as Invictus Obi, has pleaded guilty to $11million fraud. Okeke was arrested by the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) at Dulles International Airport while leaving the US over an alleged $11 million internet fraud in 2019. Okeke, who appeared before an court in the eastern district… June 19, 2020 In "News" …says ‘not all successful Nigerians abroad are fraudsters, criminals’ • $11m fraud: Invictus Obi for sentence Oct 22 in U.S. Chairman of the Nigerians in Diaspora Commission (NIDCOM), Mrs. Abike Dabiri-Erewa, yesterday insisted that not all Nigerians ‘succeeding abroad are involved in fraudulent activities’. Dabiri-Erewa’s submission followed a statement credited… June 20, 2020 In "Feature" The United States Department for Justice has said Ramon Olorunwa Abbas aka Hushpuppi, is facing a 20-year maximum sentence in prison. Hushpuppi and his friend Olakekan Jacob known as Woodberry were extradited to the United States after they were apprehended by the Dubai Police. He is facing criminal charges for conspiracy… July 4, 2020 In "Metro & Crime"