 The record-breaking Japanese anime film “Demon Slayer: Mugen Train” carried over its box-office buzz to the United States on Friday, captivating Florida fans in its first screening.
The Demon Slayer film, based on a popular manga and TV anime series, has grossed over $350 million at theaters in Japan, despite COVID-19 restrictions, surpassing Hayao Miyazaki’s Oscar-winner “Spirited Away” in just over two months to become the most successful Japanese anime of all time, reports Reuters.
“It exceeded my expectations. I cried so much,” said 20-year-old Miami resident Alex Acosta. “The animation was so good. It was a great storyline, for sure. I loved it,” she said.
The film follows Tanjiro Kamado, a boy out to avenge his family after they were murdered by human-eating demons, as he sets off on the Mugen (“Infinity”) Train with his comrades.
Carlos Brenes, 19, another Miami resident who saw the movie at the Landmark Theatres in Coral Gables, was also overwhelmed.
“It’s such a captivating story and everything about it just clicked with me emotionally, and I was super-invested all the way through,” he said.
Brothers Daniel, Javier and Luis Marmolejo thought the film should be up for Best Picture at the upcoming Oscars.
“They should win because the movie is amazing,” Luis said.  "Demon Slayer", the animated tale of a boy fighting human-eating demons that murdered his family, has shattered a nearly two-decade record to become Japan's top-grossing movie, its distributor said on Monday. The film, based on a popular manga and television anime series, powered past "Spirited Away", the mega-hit… December 28, 2020 In "Arts & Entertainments" Soft power, a term popularised by American scholar, Joseph Nye, in his 1990 book, ‘Bound to Lead: The Changing Nature of American Power’, has over the years found its way into mainstream political and international relations discourse. Nye had in his book argued that the “American popular culture, embodied in… September 5, 2020 In "Arts & Entertainments" Independence Day Box Office release, ‘Fate of Alakada’, has grossed over N28 million in its first week despite restricted seating capacity. This was made known by the distributors and co-producers of the film, FilmOne Entertainment. ‘Fate of Alakada’ is the third installment of Toyin Abraham’s Alakada franchise and was initially… October 10, 2020 In "Arts & Entertainments"