*Gov orders investigation Cephas Iorhemen, Makurdi Students of Mount Saint Michael’s Secondary School, Aliade in Gwer-East Local Government Area, Benue State escaped death as a mysterious fire Thursday burnt down their hostel.
Though, there was no casualty in the disaster, New Telegraph learnt, however, that the students lost their belongings too the disaster including food stuff and vital documents among other valuables.
Already, Governor Samuel Ortom has ordered a full scale investigation into the remote and immediate cause of the disaster.
The governor, represented by the Commissioner for Education, Prof. Dennis Ityavyar, led a team of other goverment officials to inspect the damaged facilities.
The governor said the fire incidence which recorded no casualties, destroyed properties belonging to the students living in the hostel, describing the development as unfortunate.
He ordered investigation into the cause of the disaster in order to avoid its reoccurrence, and further promised to assist the management and students of the school to cushion the effect.  Two persons reportedly lost their lives along the Ibadan-Ife road, Gbongan in Irewole Local Government Area of Osun State when a petrol tanker had a head-on collision with a fish-laden truck and caught fire. The accident which threw inhabitants of the area into a state of confusion saw sympathisers drenched… August 22, 2020 In "News" Fire has razed a 16- room dormitory at the Kano State College of Nursing and Midwifery. A student of the school, Khadija Muhammad, said the fire started during the Muslim evening prayer about 6.20pm on Wednesday. According to her, the inferno began on the third floor of Sa’idu Fagge Hostel.… October 30, 2020 In "Metro & Crime" It was a day nobody prayed for. Nobody would actually wish for it. But the people of Agbor, in Ika area of Delta State had a day they would have wished to forget but can’t in a hurry. A gas filling station exploded in daylight, killing and injuring many. DOMINIC… February 5, 2021 In "News"