 Ride hailing taxi app firm Uber must classify its drivers as workers rather than self-employed, the UK’s Supreme Court has ruled.
The decision means tens of thousands of Uber drivers are set to be entitled to minimum wage and holiday pay.
The ruling could leave Uber facing a hefty compensation bill, and have wider consequences for the gig economy, reports the BBC.
In a long-running legal battle, Uber had appealed to the Supreme Court after losing three earlier rounds.
‘Massive achievement’
Former Uber drivers James Farrar and Yaseen Aslam, who originally won an employment tribunal against the ride hailing app giant in October 2016, told the BBC they were “thrilled and relieved” by the ruling.
“I think it’s a massive achievement in a way that we were able to stand up against a giant,” said Aslam, president of the App Drivers & Couriers Union (ADCU).
“We didn’t give up and we were consistent – no matter what we went through emotionally or physically or financially, we stood our ground.”
Uber appealed against the employment tribunal decision but the Employment Appeal Tribunal upheld the ruling in November 2017.
The ride hailing taxi app firm then took the case to the High Court, which upheld the ruling again in December 2018.
The ruling on Friday was Uber’s last appeal, as the Supreme Court is Britain’s highest court, and it has the final say on legal matters.
The court considered several elements in its judgement:
*Uber set the fare which meant that they dictated how much drivers could earn
*Uber set the contract terms and drivers had no say in them
*Request for rides is constrained by Uber who can penalise drivers if they reject too many rides
Uber monitors a driver’s service through the star rating and has the capacity to terminate the relationship if after repeated warnings this does not improve
Looking at these and other factors, the court determined that drivers were in position of subordination to Uber where the only way they could increase their earnings would be to work longer hours.
‘Drivers are struggling’
A key point in the Supreme Court’s ruling is that Uber has to consider its drivers “workers” from the time they log on to the app, until they log off.
Uber drivers typically spend time waiting for people to book rides on the app. Previously, the firm had said that if drivers were found to be workers, then it would only count the time during journeys when a passenger is in the car.
“This is a win-win-win for drivers, passengers and cities. It means Uber now has the correct economic incentives not to oversupply the market with too many vehicles and too many drivers,” said James Farrar, ADCU’s general secretary.
“The upshot of that oversupply has been poverty, pollution and congestion.”
However, questions still remain about how the new classification will work, and how it affects gig economy workers who work not only for Uber, but also for other competing apps.
Aslam, who claims Uber’s practices forced him to leave the trade as he couldn’t make ends meet, is considering becoming a driver for the app again. But he is upset that it took so long.
“It took us six years to establish what we should have got in 2015. Someone somewhere, in the government or the regulator, massively let down these workers, many of whom are in a precarious position,” he said.
Farrar points out that with fares down 80% due to the pandemic, many drivers have been struggling financially and feel trapped in Uber’s system.
“We’re seeing many of our members earning £30 gross a day right now,” he said, explaining that the self-employment grants issued by the government only cover 80% of a driver’s profits, which isn’t even enough to pay for their costs.
“If we had these rights today, those drivers could at least earn a minimum wage to live on.”  The UK Supreme Court has ruled that polluted Nigerian communities can sue oil giant Shell in English courts. The decision is a victory for the communities after a five-year battle and overturns a Court of Appeal ruling. The Niger Delta communities of more than 40,000 people say decades of pollution… February 12, 2021 In "Top Stories" Tony Okuyeme Professional E-Hailing Drivers and Private-Owners Association (PEDPA), has expressed support for the newly reviewed Lagos State Government regulatory guidelines on electronic hailing (e-hailing) drivers, and unionisation in the sector. The association said the newly reviewed laws would guarantee the security of drivers and riders as well as… August 29, 2020 In "Business" •It was hell dealing with police, say others A 55-year-old cab driver, who wants to be identified as Adewale, has narrated how he attempted to commit suicide after he was arrested twice by policemen in Lagos State. He recalled that the incident occurred during the 10pm curfew period, precipitated by… October 2, 2020 In "Metro & Crime"