…as agency stalls arraignment, seeks case transfer to Lagos A former Abia State Governor and Senate Chief Whip, Dr. Orji Kalu yesterday asked a Federal High Court sitting in Abuja to prohibit the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) from retrying him on same alleged money laundering charges, he was earlier tried on. This was contained in a motion exparte filed and moved by Kalu’s counsel, Prof. Awa Kalu (SAN) before Justice Inyang Ekwo. Kalu contented that having been tried, convicted and sentenced on same charges FHC/ABJ/CR/56/ 2007, by the court by Justice M.B. Idris, it will amount to double jeopardy if he is subjected to a fresh trial on same charge. He is further seeking for an order prohibiting the Federal Republic of Nigeria, through the EFCC (her agent), her officers, servants, others, agents, privies and any other person or bodies deriving authority from the Federal Republic of Nigeria, from retrying him on charge No. FHC/ABJ/CR/56/2007 between FRN vs Orji Kalu & 2 ors or any other charge based on the same facts de novo, there being no extant judgement and ruling of a competent court in Nigeria mandating same. He is praying for an order prohibiting the Federal Republic of Nigeria, through the EFCC (her agent), her officers, servants, others, agents, privies and any other person or bodies deriving authority from the Federal Republic of Nigeria, from retrying, harassing and intimidating him with respect to the charge as concerns charge No: FHC/ABJ/CR/56/2007 between FRN vs Orji Kalu & 2 ors or any other charge based on same facts as he need not suffer double jeopardy. Kalu further asked that his application, if granted, should operate as a stay of proceedings until the determination of the application or until the Judge otherwise orders. In a 21-paragraph affidavit deposed in support of his motion, Senator Kalu chronicled the historical background of the trial from his first arraignment and re-arraignment in 2016 and 2017, before the Abuja division of the Federal High Court after the initial charges were amended by the EFCC. He further narrated how his application to quash the charges was not granted by both the trial court, the Court of Appeal and the Supreme Court. Kalu told the court that following an application by the EFCC to the Chief Judge of the Federal High Court, the charge was transferred to the Lagos division of the court and was assigned to Justice M.B. Idris (now a Justice of the Court of Appeal). That upon the transfer of the charge to Lagos, he bore the cost of movement of his entire legal team from Abuja to Lagos, including the cost of accommodation up till judgement. Kalu disclosed that at the trial, the prosecution called a total of 19 witnesses and thereafter, closed its case, necessitating him together with other defendants to enter individually and respectively a no case submission. He stated how midway through the trial, Justice Idris was elevated to the Court of Appeal as a Justice of the court and subsequently took the oath of office and subscribed to the Oath of Allegiance on June 22, 2018 and lost his position as a Judge of the Federal High Court. The applicant also narrated how by a fiat dated July 2, 2018, issued under the hand of the President of the Court of Appeal, Justice Idris was directed to return to the Federal High Court to conclude the trial, then part-heard in charge no: FHC/ABJ/CR/56/2007, between FRN vs Orji Kalu and 2 ors. That in his judgement on December 5, 2019, Justice Idris convicted and sentenced him with respect to the extant charge. That following his conviction and sentence, he was incarcerated at the Kuje Correctional Centre where he served part of his term having first spent a few days in the Ikoyi Correctional Centre. That on May 8, 2020, the Supreme Court, in judgement in appeal No: SC.62C/2019, Udeh Jones Udeogu vs FRN & 2 ors, held that the trial of the appellant at the trial court was conducted without jurisdiction and thereby ordered the retrial of the appellant (Udeh Jones Udeogu) without reference to him. He argued that there is no extant ruling or judgement of a competent court in Nigeria ordering his trial having regard to the fact that the Supreme Court excluded him from the explicit order for retrial arising from charge No: FHC/ ABJ/56/2007. That the unassailable position of the law is that no person who shows that he has been tried by any court of competent jurisdiction or tribunal for a criminal and either convicted or acquitted shall again be tried for that offence having the same ingredients as that offence serve upon the order of a competent court. That his trial having been pronounced a nullity by the Supreme Court in its judgement of May 8, 2020 and without more cannot entitle the EFCC to institute the same charge against him. After listening to Awa Kalu (SAN), Justice Ekwo reserved ruling till Monday February 8, 2021. While Kalu (SAN) led the defence team of Senator Kalu, Chief Solomon Akuma (SAN) and K.C. Nwafor appeared for Udeh Jones Udeogu and Slok Nigeria Ltd respectively. Meanwhile, the EFCC is seeking the transfer of the trial from Abuja to the Lagos division of the court. When the case was called up, the prosecution counsel, Chile Okoroma, informed the Judge of a letter by his client, seeking the transfer of the case to the Lagos division of the court. He said that the request is predicated on previous decision of the Federal High Court and the Court of Appeal which held that “no element of defense in the charge took place in Abuja”. Okoroma accordingly urged the court to adjourn the matter indefinitely (sine dine) pending the decision of the Chief Judge. However, trial judge, Justice Ekwo declined adjourning indefinitely and fixed June 7 for report on the decision of the Chief Judge.  The Federal Government yesterday slammed six separate criminal charges against a British national, Mr James Nolan, and six other companies over their alleged involvement in the $9.6billion Process and Industrial Development (P&ID) “contract scam” before the Federal High Court sitting in Abuja. P&ID, an Irish engineering company, had secured a… August 19, 2020 In "News" Court fixes September 10 for trial   The Federal Government yesterday rearraigned an oil magnate, Alhaji Aliyu Abubakar, and seven others on an amended 67 criminal count charges over their alleged complicity in the disputed Oil Processing License (OPL) 245, otherwise known as Malabu Oil.   Abubakar was, last… September 9, 2020 In "News" The Federal Government yesterday arraigned Dr. Obinna Uzor and his lawyer, Eziafa Enwedo, before a Federal High Court sitting in Abuja, over allegedly using a forged Originating Summons and court processes to obtain a forged judgement from a High Court of the Federal Capital Territory to unseat Senator Ifeanyi Ubah,… July 3, 2020 In "Metro & Crime"