 Barely 24 hours after the attack on Government Science College Kagara by bandits, some communities in Gurmana Ward of Shiroro Local Government Area of Niger State have come under fresh attacks by bandits.
According to reports, the attack occurred at about 6 pm on Wednesday.
The affected communities include Sarkin Zama, Bakin Kogi (Lagbe), Siyiko and other adjoining communities.
It was learnt the bandits stormed the villages on motorcycles, shooting sporadically into the air.
It was also learnt some persons had been killed and over 30 abducted.
The communities were still taking stock to know the certain deaths and the identity of people abducted.
The injured villagers were taken to health facilities around the communities for medical attention.
The Co-convener, Concerned Shiroro Youths, Sani Abubakar Kokki, confirmed the attack.
He said scores have been abducted expressing worry over their situation.
Kokki lamented the local government council have been having countless deadly attacks daily, which have compelled residents to live in fear and at the mercy of the bandits.
Efforts made to reach the Police Public Relations Officer, ASP Wasiu Abiodun were not successful as he failed to answer his calls.  Bandits have unleashed terror on villages in Shiroro Local Government Area of Niger State. In the Sunday attacks, the bandits kidnapped at least 10 people, stole farm produce and set several houses ablaze. This came barely 48 hours after the bandits attacked some communities in the state. According to reports,… June 16, 2020 In "Metro & Crime" Gunmen yesterday invaded Shiroro and Lapai local government areas of Niger State and killed one person. They also abducted 56 others. The attack came barely three days after President Muhammadu Buhari appointed new Service Chiefs to tackle insecurity in the country. The gunmen, according to a source, attacked Avu community… January 29, 2021 In "Metro & Crime" Bandits have killed 22 people, among them 17 vigilantes, a police officer and a woman in three local government areas of Niger State. The bandits also injured several others and abducted more than 30 people. The New Telegraph was informed that the bandits killed about 17 vigilantes in Dukku town… September 4, 2020 In "Metro & Crime"