The Association of Local Government Chairmen of Nigeria (ALGON) Zamfara State chapter has called on all and sundry to embark on rigorous prayers to God to spiritually free innocent lives from banditry and other high profile crimes in the state, the North West region and the country at large.  ALGON Chairman in the state, Muhammad Umar Birnin Magaji, made the disclosure in Gusau, the state capital, shortly after the association’s State Executive Council meeting on security matters.  “We are unanimous in supporting the steps taken by our governor in addressing the issues of armed banditry, kidnapping, cattle rustling and other heinous crimes, which had brought our state to a standstill in the past.  “This was particularly achieved following the peace and dialogue initiated by his excellency, which led to unconditional surrender of large cache of arms and ammunition by repentant bandits, who have also supported the government and security agents in either bringing new repentant or identifying recalcitrant ones so that they will be brought to book.  The newly deployed Commissioner of Police in Zamfara State, CP Abutu Yaro, has announced the readiness of his command to work closely with the host communities, enhance synergy with other security agencies and journalists, with a view to promoting lasting peace, security and the safety in the state.   CP… December 25, 2020 In "News" The Association of Local Government of Nigeria (ALGON), Ebonyi State chapter, yesterday tackled the former Secretary to the Government of the Federation, Anyim Pius Anyim, over his outburst against Governor Dave Umahi. Anyim had in an open letter he signed and released to the public, poured invectives on Umahi and… December 8, 2020 In "News" Northern governors have called on security agencies to investigate the allegation that one of them is the Commander of Boko Haram in Nigeria. Chairman, Northern States Governors’ Forum (NSGF) and Governor of Plateau State, Simon Lalong, who made the demand in Jos yesterday, said the governors were concerned about the… August 13, 2020 In "News"