 Pauline Onyibe, Yenagoa Bayelsa State Governor Douye Diri has  urged his Delta State counterpart and the entire Okowa family to continue to uphold the worthy legacies of their patriarch, Pa Okorie Arthur Okowa  stating that they should be  consoled because he lived a fulfilled life.
Speaking on Wednesday in Asaba during a condolence visit to Governor Ifeanyi Okowa, on the death of his  father Diri, who acknowledged that death was an inevitable end, noted that there was no age too old for a loved one to die.
In a statement by his chief press secretary Daniel Alabrah, the governor, making reference to the scriptures, urged the bereaved family and people of Delta State to thank God in all situations and also prayed God to comfort them in their moment of grief.
He said: “When the news of the death of your father broke, you communicated me. As governor of Bayelsa, we felt that it was necessary for us to personally come and commiserate with you and your people on this loss of your beloved father.”
Responding, Okowa expressed gratitude to his Bayelsa counterpart and his entourage for identifying with him and his family.  More tributes poured in yesterday for Governor of Delta State, Senator Ifeanyi Okowa, from the Minority Caucus of the House of Representatives, alongside Cross River State governor, Prof. Ben Ayade and his Ekiti State counterpart, Dr. Kayode Fayemi, over the death of his father, Sir Okorie Uzoma Arthur Okowa, at… January 30, 2021 In "News" …promises to end godfatherism …vote, stay, protect your mandate, Obi, Tambuwal,Okowa, Wike, others urge Edo electorate The Edo State Governor and candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in the September 19 governorship election, Godwin Obaseki, yesterday declared that with the support of Edo people and endorsements by over 100… September 16, 2020 In "News" Three prominent people have died in Delta State. They are Pa Arthur Okowa, the father of Governor Ifeanyi Okowa; the Majority Leader of the state House of Assembly, Hon. Tim Owhefere; and Prince Emmanuel Ogbon. Owhefere died about 11pm on Wednesday, news filtered into the streets of Asaba, the state… January 29, 2021 In "Metro & Crime"