Borno State Governor, Babagana Zulum, yesterday supervised the distribution of N80 million and food supplies to 16,000 female returnees in the township of Gwoza as part of activities in the second day of his humanitarian visit to towns and villages in Gwoza Local Government Area of Southern Borno.  The governor, who arrived in Gwoza on Friday, had on Saturday, supervised the distribution of N150 million to small and medium scale traders as well as food items to 27,000 mostly male family members who returned after fleeing from Boko Haram occupation.  In yesterday’s resumed activities, 16,000 women were each given N5,000 cash to complement the variety of food items given to them.  The intervention was part of continued support to vulnerable residents of communities whose means of livelihood had been affected by activities of Boko Haram.  Gwoza came under Boko Haram’s occupation between 2014 and 2015 with videos showing the insurgents’ leader, Abubakar Shekau, using Gwoza town as the sect’s spiritual and territorial headquarters. The military liberated the town in the later part of 2015.  The insurgents had during their stay destroyed hundreds of private homes and public facilities, particularly schools, given the sect’s ideological opposition to Western education.  As part of sustained responses to restoring education in all council areas, Zulum used his visit to Gwoza to interact with teachers of a Government Secondary School, and a Government Day Secondary School, both in the town.  Borno State Governor, Prof. Babagana Zulum, used the whole of yesterday for humanitarian activities in Ngoshe, Warabe and Pulka, all in Gwoza Local Government Areas of Southern Borno.   At Ngoshe, Zulum supervised the distribution of food items and N24 million in cash to 1,200 vulnerable citizens who returned from… December 8, 2020 In "News" At least three soldiers and two members of the Civilian Joint Task Force (CJTF) were killed in an ambush by Boko Haram members on Gajiram-Monguno Road, Borno State on Saturday.   Others were wounded in the attack. The military personnel and members of the CJTF were on their way to… November 23, 2020 In "News" A member representing Damboa, Chibok and Gwoza Federal Constituency at the National Assembly, Hon. Ahmed Jaha, has commended Governor Babagana Zulum for his commitment in ensuring that all Internally Displaced Persons(IDPs) in the state returned to their ancestral homes. The lawmaker made the commendation in an interview with newsmen at… October 8, 2020 In "News"