*Benzema and Mendy score goals in 2-0 win
*Juventus hold off Inter to reach Coppa Italia final Real Madrid overcame an injury crisis to beat Getafe 2-0 at home on Tuesday and close the gap to La Liga leaders Atlético Madrid to five points.
Karim Benzema headed the champions in front on the hour mark while French left back Ferland Mendy doubled their lead six minutes later, starting the move with a bursting run through midfield before sliding in to knock home a cross from Marcelo, reports Reuters.
The victory took Zinedine Zidane’s side into second in the standings and left them five points below Atlético, who drew 2-2 with Celta Vigo on Monday to end an eight-game winning streak but have two games in hand.
Real were missing nine first-team players through injury or suspension, which led Zidane to field an unorthodox 3-4-3 formation, while handing 20-year-old midfielder Marvin Park his first start for the club and giving defender Victor Chust his league debut from the bench.
In Italy, Juventus booked a place in the Coppa Italia final after holding visitors Internazionale to a 0-0 draw in their semi-final, second leg on Tuesday, sealing a date with either Napoli or Atalanta with a 2-1 success on aggregate.
Romelu Lukaku and Lautaro Martínez had chances to get Inter back in the tie in the first half, while Cristiano Ronaldo came closest to adding to Juve’s aggregate advantage in the opening period, having scored both of their goals in the first leg.
After the break, Ronaldo turned on the style and was only denied another goal in the tie by two fine saves from Inter goalkeeper Samir Handanovic.
Inter threw everything at Juve late on but veteran keeper Gianluigi Buffon and his defence stood firm to secure a spot in the showpiece match against the winners of Wednesday’s semi, with Atalanta hosting Napoli after a 0-0 draw in the first leg.  *Barcelona claim third successive win for first time this season *Real Madrid held to 0-0 draw at struggling Osasuna Real Madrid were held to a goalless draw at struggling Osasuna on Saturday evening, failing to overcome the unforgiving conditions amid persistent snow and passing up the chance to go clear at the… January 10, 2021 In "Sports" Real Madrid lost ground on La Liga leaders Atletico Madrid after a disappointing draw at Elche. Fidel struck a second-half penalty to earn his side a point and end Real's run of five consecutive league wins. Luka Modric had opened the scoring from close range after Marco Asensio's long-range… December 31, 2020 In "Sports" *Neto error costs Barça at 10-man Alavés; Hazard finally scores *Torreira scores in Atlético win; Gervinho hits two at Inter Barcelona ended a turbulent week with a 1-1 draw at 10-man Alavés after a Neto howler left them with too much to do. Four days after Josep Maria Bartomeu resigned his presidency following months of… November 1, 2020 In "Sports"