D’Tigress star forward, Evelyn Akhator, at the weekend said she was ‘surprised’ when Nigeria was drawn to face World and Olympic Champions USA at the Tokyo 2021 Games in Japan but will be ready to face the Americans.
Last week, the Nigeria senior female basketball national team was drawn against rivals and World No. 1 USA, fifth-ranked France and hosts Japan in a difficult Group B of the postponed Tokyo Olympics, which will be staged from July 23 to August 8 this year.
In what is becoming an epic and fascinating rivalry, USA defeated D’Tigress 71-40 as Nigeria became the first African country to reach the quarter finals of the World Cup in 2018, before the 4-time African champions lost to the Americans 71-76.
In a radio interview monitored in Abuja, the 26-year-old Flammes Carolo of France player added that D’Tigress would be mentally ready for the tough challenge.
Asked how she felt when the draw was made, the two-time Afrobasket champion said: “ I was surprised, I didn’t expect us to play the USA from the beginning. I was actually expecting it from, like probably, the quarter-finals or something.
“But again, it is what it is. We just move, we move, you know. We can’t dwell on it. It has already happened. All we need is just to prepare and get our minds right, that’s the most important thing.”
D’Tigress will open their campaign at the Tokyo Olympics against defending champions USA on July 27, before facing European powerhouse France on July 30, while hosts Japan will be their last group foes on August 2.  Nigeria’s D’Tigress and Flammes Carolo of France forward Evelyn Akhator has stated that she is sure of the ability of the Nigeria women basketball national team to compete and stand their own against any team after drawing what she described as the toughest group of the Women basketball events at… February 5, 2021 In "Sports" D’Tigress have been drawn alongside world number one, USA, European powerhouse, France and host- Japan in group B of the women basketball event of the 2020 Tokyo Olympics. With a developing rivalry between USA and D’Tigress recently, basketball pundits are salivating over the matchup that promises premium excitement. The last… February 3, 2021 In "Sports" NBBF unveils plans for Tokyo Games   The Nigeria Basketball Federation has not given the national men and women basketball teams any target ahead of the next Tokyo Olympic Games but the NBBF is optimistic the squads have the capacity to even finish on the podium at the fiesta.  … February 8, 2021 In "Sports"