 Igbeaku Orji, Umuahia The Abia State Judicial Panel Of Inquiry on #EndSARS and police brutality set up by Governor Okezie Ikpeaku to probe human rights violations by the police has submitted its report with recommendation of compensation of N511 million to victims of police abuse. The Panel on Police brutality, extra judicial Killings and other Related Matters submitted its five-volume  report to Governor Ikpeazu on Thursday. Receiving the report, the governor, who was represented by the Secretary to Abia State Government, Barr.Chris Ezem, commended the Panel for rendering historic and selfless services to the state. He promised that the state government would study the report with a view to implementing it. The governor stressed that the report would guide the public on how best to relate with the police and other security agencies, reiterating that the security institutions need the support and cooperation of the citizens, in order to excel in their duties. Speaking earlier, Panel Chairman and former retired Chief Judge of Abia State, Hon. Justice Sunday Imo explained that the first volume contained, the main report, the second contained all the petitions, while Volume 3, dealt with records and proceedings of the Panel. Volume 4 centred on findings and recommendations of the Panel while the last volume contained case files, exhibits etc. Hon. Justice Imo (rtd) announced that the Panel recommended over N511 million be paid to the victims of security agents brutality and other human rights abuses. He revealed that the Panel received 86 cases/petitions and 46 went through full hearing while the remaining cases were dismissed or struck out.   The Special judicial Panel of inquiry to investigate complaints of police brutality and related extra judicial killings in Plateau State constituted last October by Governor Simon Lalong has submitted its final report     The panel, which was to among other things, examined cases of police brutality, human rights violations,… June 13, 2021 In "Metro & Crime" The Judicial Panel of Inquiry on Police Brutality and Other Related Matters set up by the Ondo State government has recommended the payment of N755 million as compensation to victims of police brutality in the state. Also, the panel recommended the publication of apologies in national dailies, particularly where the… April 29, 2021 In "News" The Bayelsa Judicial Panel of Inquiry on Police Brutality and other Related Offence has awarded N21 billion to victims of extra-judicial killings perpetrated by the police and other security operatives. Chairman of the Panel, rtd. Justice Young Ogola, disclosed this while submitting the report to Governor Douye Diri in… July 8, 2021 In "Metro & Crime"