 England manager Gareth Southgate has urged his players to play without fear when they take on Ukraine in the European Championship quarter-final on Saturday.
Southgate emphasised the need for his players to refocus after eliminating Germany with a 2-0 win at Wembley in the last-16, while warning his side to not to look too far ahead and underestimate their underdog opponents, reports Reuters.
“We’ve achieved one challenge but that’s not the Everest we set ourselves,” Southgate said. “We want to push on.”
“It’s another chance for the team to make history. We’ve moved on from Germany pretty quickly and it’s not easy because you get all these lovely messages. But the mindset has got to be about Saturday. Not beyond Saturday.”
“We’re not complacent. We’ve got to stay composed, but not fearful. We’ve got to be on the front foot. We’ve got to take the next step forward.”
England face Ukraine at the Stadio Olimpico in Rome, having played their first four games on home turf. The winner will take on either the Czech Republic or Denmark, who play earlier on Saturday, in the semi-final.  England's Euro 2020 last-16 tie with Germany on Tuesday is an opportunity for his team to "make some history", says manager Gareth Southgate. Southgate hopes to guide England into the quarter-finals after reaching the last four of the World Cup in 2018. He is keen for his players to write… June 29, 2021 In "Sports" • Southgate to name replacement after Romania game • England players to be asked about taking a knee Trent Alexander-Arnold has been ruled out of Euro 2020 after sustaining a thigh injury in the closing stages of England’s 1-0 win over Austria on Wednesday. The Liverpool right-back is devastated by a setback… June 4, 2021 In "Sports" • Manager will put off announcement until next week • Alexander-Arnold unlikely to make final selection Gareth Southgate has decided to delay naming his final England squad for Euro 2020 today after a late change of heart and will instead wait until June 1 before trimming the group to 26… May 25, 2021 In "Sports"