Ex-international accuses coach of dereliction of duties, insists team won’t fly under German  Ex-international Friday Elaho has hit out at the Super Eagles Manager, Gernot Rohr, and his employers, the Nigeria Football Federation, saying they should be blamed for the embarrassing 4-0 defeat the national team suffered in the hands of Mexico in a friendly match played Sunday morning.  The Eagles, consist of mainly home-based players, were whitewashed by the Mexicans in a match Hector Herrera scored a brace and Elaho said the NFF pushed the country to the mess.  Controversy had earlier trailed the match after Rohr dissociated himself from the team, saying the homebased lads would be handled by the Technical Director of the NFF, Austin Eguavoen. Eguavoen couldn’t make the trip due to visa hitches and coach Paul Aigbogun took charge of the team even when Rohr was on the bench.  However, Elaho wondered why a national team coach would brazenly abdicate his duties and would be so abated by his employers. He said Rohr has showed he has no passion for the job and the results under his stewardship abundantly underlines his incompetence. “It is a national embarrassment; and I will blame Rohr and the NFF for this. I don’t know why a coach would refuse to do his job and he will even be encouraged by the FA to do so,” he told our correspondent. ”  This is the first time the homebased would go out in a long time and it would have been better to see how the national team coach would handle them.  But this man said he was not going to tutor them and we still saw him on the bench doing nothing leaving Aigbogun to do the job. That is an affront on us as a nation  The fixtures were strange but the back-to-back friendly games between Nigeria and Cameroon came up in Vienna, Austria on June 4 and 8. We believe the performances of Eagles stars in the just concluded season gave many Nigerians hope that Cameroon would not be a problem. We recall that Victor… June 18, 2021 In "Editorial" The job of Super Eagles coach is a big one by all standards and this is largely because football is the number one sport in Nigeria and people love the game. The talents are there in the country at youth and senior levels and it is expected that getting results… June 12, 2021 In "Sports" The Nigeria Football Federation deserves full credit for the quality of friendly games being staged for the national teams in recent times. The Super Falcons were in the United States only recently for a four-nation tourney in which Nigeria played against Jamaica, Portugal and the USA. It was a big… June 26, 2021 In "Sports"