No fewer than 15 students of Army Day Secondary School, Effurun, Delta State, yesterday lost their lives when a trailer reportedly crushed them to death. Eye witnesses told New Telegraph that the victims met their untimely death when a wobbling trailer rammed into them by the way side as they were returning from school by 2pm. Immediately the incident occurred, sympathisers quickly moved in to rescue the mangled bodies as they were dragged out from the trailer just as blood gushed out from the wounded while the dismembered bodies of school students littered the side ways. The incident, which occurred amid heavy downpour even as it was gathered that three children from the same family were involved and a woman of about 80-year-old collapsed when she could not bear the horrible sight. Investigations revealed that some of the badly wounded students were rushed to the nearby Nigerian Navy Hospital located along the NPA Expressway opposite the Nigeria Army Barracks, Effurun.  Olufemi Adediran, Abeokuta A truck on Thursday day ran over a motorcycle conveying four students to school, killing two siblings. The accident, which involved a Man diesel truck, SHR 35 XA and a Bajaj motorcycle marked, LSD 638 QB, occurred along the Sagamu - Ikorodu road around 7:57am on Thursday. The Public Relations Officer (PRO), Traffic… April 1, 2021 In "Metro & Crime" There was gnashing of teeth at Effurun in Uvwie Local Government Area of Delta State on Thursday after a petrol tanker crushed some pupils of Army Children Primary School in the locality. Pandemonium immediately erupted after the tanker suddenly left the road and ran over them. The school children were… July 8, 2021 In "Metro & Crime" Enugu families in tears Sympathisers wept uncontrollably at Awgu town in Awgu Local Government Area of Enugu State following the tragic death of 21 pupils in an auto crash. Many other children including roadside artisans were also critically injured in the accident. The schoolchildren were crushed to death when an… October 30, 2020 In "Metro & Crime"