 A Federal High Court in Abuja has ordered the remand of Adedibu Ojerinde, former Registrar of the Joint Admission and Matriculation Board (JAMB), in prison custody.
The Independent Corrupt Practices and Other Related Offences Commission (ICPC) arraigned Ojerinde on Tuesday in a suit marked: FHC/ABJ/CR/97/2021, on an 18-count charge bordering on misappropriation of funds to the tune of N900 million.
The commission alleged that the former registrar committed multiple frauds while heading JAMB and the National Examination Council (NECO).
Upon arraignment, Ojerinde pleaded not guilty.
Peter Olorunnishola, defendant counsel, subsequently informed the court about a bail application he filed and served on the prosecution.
He said Ebenezer Shogunle, the prosecution counsel, filed a counter-affidavit but served it late. He then sought time to respond to the counter affidavit.
Shogunle, who did not object to Olorunnishola’s request for time, opposed the defence lawyer’s application that his client be allowed to remain on the administrative bail, earlier granted him by the ICPC, pending the hearing of his bail application.
In a ruling, Obiora Egwuatu, the judge, ordered that Ojerinde be kept in a correctional facility pending the hearing of his bail application, scheduled for Thursday.  Operatives of the Independent Corrupt Practices and Other Related Offences Commission (ICPC), have arrested a former Registrar and Chief Executive Officer of the Joint Admission and Matriculation Board (JAMB), Prof. Dibu Ojerinde, over allegations bordering on misappropriation of public funds to the tune of N900 million. According to a statement… March 18, 2021 In "News" ...accuses Ojerinde of multiple identities, abuse of office, tax evasion Operatives of the Independent Corrupt Practices and Other Related Offences Commission (ICPC), have arrested a former Registrar and Chief Executive Officer of the Joint Admission and Matriculation Board (JAMB), Prof. Dibu Ojerinde, over allegations bordering on misappropriation of public funds… March 17, 2021 In "News" A Federal High Court sitting in Abuja, will today hear the bail application filed by Borno South senator, Ali Ndume, who has been detained in prison since Monday over his suretyship for the disappeared Abdulrasheed Maina. Maina, a former chairman of the defunct Pension Reform Task Team, was standing trial… November 26, 2020 In "News"