 Wimbledon champion Novak Djokovic has confirmed he will compete in this summer’s Olympic Games in Tokyo. Djokovic, who claimed a record-equalling 20th men’s Grand Slam title last weekend, had said he was “50-50” about whether he would take part, reports the BBC. On Thursday, however, the 34-year-old posted on Twitter he would be “proudly” joining Team Serbia for the Games in eight days’ time. He added: “I booked my flight for Tokyo.” Djokovic said after retaining his Wimbledon crown that he was undecided about appearing at the Tokyo Games after it was announced fans would not be allowed to attend because of a spike in coronavirus infections. The world number one lifted his third title of the year at the All England Club a week ago and is now on course to try to complete tennis’ ‘Golden Slam’. He needs to win gold at the Tokyo Olympics and take the US Open singles title in September to become the first male player to achieve the feat. Germany’s Steffi Graf is the only player to accomplish a ‘Golden Slam’, which she achieved in 1988. Earlier this week, British number ones Johanna Konta and Dan Evans withdrew from the Games because of positive COVID-19 tests, while Swiss legend Roger Federer, Spanish star, Rafael Nadal and three-time Grand Slam winner Angelique Kerber have also pulled out. The tennis tournament at the Olympic Games gets under way July 24.   Men's tennis number one Novak Djokovic has been disqualified from the US Open after he accidentally hit a line judge with a ball. The top seed had been bidding for his 18th Grand Slam win but his title hopes were dashed after he was defaulted from the fourth-round match… September 6, 2020 In "Sports" Novak Djokovic won his sixth Wimbledon title to equal Roger Federer and Rafael Nadal's record of 20 men's Grand Slam victories after fighting back to beat Italy's Matteo Berrettini. The 34-year-old Serb won 6-7 (4-7) 6-4 6-4 6-3 in front of a passionate and vocal 15,000 crowd on Centre Court,… July 11, 2021 In "Sports" Defending champion Novak Djokovic had too much quality for Hungary's Marton Fucsovics as he reached the Wimbledon semi-finals with a focused display. Djokovic, 34, was far from his best, but still won 6-3 6-4 6-4 against 29-year-old Fucsovics, who was contesting his first Grand Slam quarter-final, reports the BBC. The… July 7, 2021 In "Sports"