 Arsenal have signed Portugal U21 defender Nuno Tavares from Benfica. The 21-year-old, who is the Gunners’ first signing of the summer in a deal reportedly worth around £8m, will join up with his team-mates in north London once he has completed his isolation period. Tavares came through the Benfica youth system and has made a total of 25 appearances for the club since making his first-team debut in the Portuguese Super Cup win over Sporting Lisbon in August 2019, reports Sky Sports. “When I finished the season my agent told me that Arsenal were interested in me,” Tavares told the club’s official website. “In the first instance I was very happy and after this I dreamed about it, and [spoke about it] with my mum. I was so excited to be here, and now I’m here I’m so happy. “I’m so excited because it is a big club and for me as a young guy, it is a pleasure to be here. “Mikel [Arteta] and Edu helped me so much. They speak with me every time, and call me and I feel people want me here. I like that because I need this power and I’m so grateful for this.” “We welcome Nuno to the club,” Arsenal manager Arteta said. “He is a young player with great promise who has developed very well with Benfica in recent seasons and has also shown his quality by being part of Portugal U21s. “Nuno’s arrival will give the squad extra strength and options in defence, particularly with this energy on the left side of the pitch. “We look forward to Nuno’s arrival soon, his integration into the Arsenal family and playing in front of our fantastic supporters.” Technical director Edu said: “Nuno is a talented young player who was wanted by a number of clubs across Europe. “He will provide strong back-up in the left-back position. We look forward to him growing and developing with us and becoming an important member of the first-team squad.”  Arsenal's Bukayo Saka has signed a new "long-term" contract with the Premier League club. The 18-year-old has broken into the Gunners' first team this season, making 33 appearances. The versatile England Under-19 international's previous deal was due to expire next summer, leading to reports he could leave. Saka tweeted: "Arsenal… July 2, 2020 In "Sports" * As Luiz accepts blame for Arsenal defeat Manchester City boss Pep Guardiola said he is "very concerned" after defender Eric Garcia was taken to hospital following a collision against Arsenal. The 19-year-old collided with City keeper Ederson late on in the 3-0 Premier League win at Etihad Stadium, reports… June 18, 2020 In "Sports" A former Super Eagles star, Emmanuel Amuneke, has applauded the feat achieved by his former team, Sporting Lisbon, by winning the domestic league in Portugal. Sporting defeated Boavista 1-0 on Tuesday to end their 19-year wait for a league title. The last time the team won was in 2002. Sporting,… May 13, 2021 In "Sports"