 Cephas Iorhemen, Makurdi Governor Samuel Ortom of Benue State Tuesday described the decision of the Southern Governors Forum (SGF) to enact laws to ban open grazing of livestock in the region as a bold and patriotic move that will bring to an end the intractable crisis caused by militia herdsmen in the country.
The governor also lauded his counterparts in that region for backing their May 11 Asaba declaration against open grazing with the resolve to legally prohibit nomadic cattle rearing.
According to him, the resolution conforms with the global best practice of animal husbandry.
The governor, in a statement by his Chief Press Secretary, Mr. Terver Akase, also commended “the SGF for their position on rotation of the Presidency between the North and South, beginning from 2023”.
Governor Ortom was optimistic that only equity, fairness and justice can strengthen the country’s unity, give all citizens a sense of belonging and reduce tensions across the country.
The governor re-echoed his call on the Federal Government to respect the 1999 Constitution (as amended) regarding fundamental human rights, the rule of law and federal character.  Governor Samuel Ortom of Benue State, yesterday, launched tirades against his Bauchi State counterpart, Senator Bala Mohammed. Ortom accused his colleague of supporting killer herdsmen.   He alleged that Mohammed was part of the conspiracy of the Fulani herdsmen to wipe out Benue people from their ancestral land because of… February 23, 2021 In "News" Governor of Benue state, Mr. Samuel Ortom is a disingenuous thespian. He seeks to recreate the absurdist theatre of ancient Greek, but replicates it very poorly. But in his die-hard posture of dramatizing the bizarre, the Governor competes for fame, which sophistry has outclassed Sophocles, the great Greek playwright. Governor… May 5, 2021 In "News" CEPHAS IORHEMEN reports that Governor Samuel Ortom of Benue State appears to be the hero of the anti-open grazing campaign, following the recent declaration by southern governors on the issue     When the governor of Benue State, Samuel Ortom, began the fight against militant herdsmen, who were then attacking… May 18, 2021 In "Politics"