… Cars, houses razed, livestocks, other valuables looted Daniel Atori, Minna At least three persons have been reportedly killed in a communal clash between Boku and Doko communities over disputed land in Lavun Local Government Area of Niger State.
Our Correspondent learnt that the over 50-year dispute between the two communities worsened on Thursday and Friday when Doko people allegedly attacked the people of Boku leaving several others injured.
It was gathered that several houses and vehicles belonging to Boku people were burnt, monies and valuables looted, while many livestock, consisting of cows, goats and sheep, were stolen.
A resident of Boku Community, Mohammed Alikali, told our Correspondent that two persons died instantly and a third person also died at the Federal Medical Center as a result of a gunshot wound.
New Telegraph learnt that the attack, which was allegedly led by one Sarkin Samari also known as ‘Tengi’, had been reported to the police.
While lamenting government’s nonchalant attitude towards their plight, Alikali said Boku is currently deserted and the villagers having taken refuge in neighbouring villages.  At least three buildings were burnt during a clash between Omor and Anaku communities in Ayamelum Local Government Area of Anambra State. One of the burnt houses belongs to a former Commissioner for Transport, Dr. Christian Madubuko.   Also, nine people were said to have been injured, two of whom… May 17, 2021 In "Metro & Crime" Troops of the joint military spike operation codenamed Operation Whirl Stroke (OPWS), on Sunday, nabbed one local militia leader popularly known as Alhaji Audu from Olegeje community in Agatu Local Government Area of Benue State and recovered one AK47 rifle and 60 rounds of ammunition from him during a communal… June 16, 2020 In "Metro & Crime" Bandits numbering over 50 have attacked Madaka village in Rafi Local Government Area of Niger State and killed three people including the leader of a vigilance group, Mallam Isyaku Alhassan. The bandits also kidnapped the village head of Madaka community for the second time in an attack that lasted for… December 21, 2020 In "Metro & Crime"