Abdulwahab Isa Abuja NIRSAL Microfinance Bank (NMFB) has described allegations purporting diversification of N5 million Agri-Business Small and Medium Enterprises Investment Scheme (AGSMEIS) loan as unfounded.  In a statement issued in Abuja by its Head of Corporate Communications, Halima Idris Omar, the bank described the incident in question as a rare case of swap of phone numbers with similar names in 2019, when full automation had not been deployed.  She said: “The phone numbers of two applicants bearing the same name (Rebecca Daniel and Rebecca Zamari Daniel) exchanged places during the disbursement process.  “Incidentally, both had AGSMEIS loan approvals for different sums. Upon disbursement, the loan of N500,000.00 was approved in favor of the rightful person using her Bank Verification Number (BVN), but with a wrong phone number.”  Omar, however, posited that the loan had since been utilised by the said beneficiary in early 2020, while repayment had also commenced after moratorium.  “This explains why Rebecca Zamari Daniel was receiving text messages for the repayment of a N500,000 loan. “Presently, the information mismatch has been sorted and the N5 million loan for Rebecca Zamari Daniel booked,“ she added. The statement noted that the AGSMEIS application process had now been improved by leveraging on technology to bring about efficiency following fullyautomated process from start to finish.  The statement further said the applicants are now able to carry out a BVN validation exercise, conduct a credit bureau check and provide guarantors online, whereas online questionnaire replaces physical or telephone interview. Essentially, the AGSMEIS loan is one of the initiatives of the Federal Government through the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN), which aims to support SMEs and agri-businesses.  In its effort to revamp agriculture value chain, Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) has released the sum of N12.552 billion to large, medium and small scale poultry farmers in the country. The injection between the last quarter of 2019 and November 2020 was done through various commercial banks and the… December 17, 2020 In "News" There appears to be a fresh crisis among farmers and other stakeholders over the negative economic impact of the suspension of the Anchor Borrowers Loans scheme allegedly mismanaged by the Nigeria Incentive Based Risk Sharing System for Agricultural Lending (NIRSAL).   The Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) had recently suspended… April 20, 2021 In "News" The Central Bank of Nigeria’s (CBN) intervention programmes have helped to cushion the devastating impact of COVID-19 crisis on the nation’s poultry industry, writes TONY CHUKWUNYEM Clearly, this may not be the best of times for the Nigerian poultry industry. Like its counterparts in most parts of the world, disruptions… December 23, 2020 In "Business"