 Nigeria defeated the United States men’s basketball team 90-87 in their first tune-up game ahead of the 2020 Olympics in Tokyo. Point guard, Gabe Vincent, Caleb Agada and forward Precious Achiuwa were the stars for the Nigerian team in the game played Saturday. Nigeria converted 22 three-point throws in the game. It was the country’s first win over the No. 1 ranked nation in the world. “We just wanted to compete,” said Nigeria’s Gabe Nnamdi, who goes by Gabe Vincent when playing for the Miami Heat.
“We know what USA Basketball means around the world and what they’ve stood for for so long,” he said. The U.S. had lost 11 games before Saturday in major international play — Olympics and World Cups, mostly — since NBA players began filling the American rosters with the first Dream Team in 1992. None of those losses came against a team from Africa. “I thought that the Nigerian team played very physically, did a great job in that regard and knocked down a lot of 3s,” U.S. coach Gregg Popovich said. “Give them credit.” Nnamdi led Nigeria with 21 points. Caleb Agada scored 17 points, Ike Nwamu added 13 and Nigeria outscored the U.S. 60-30 from 3-point range. Kevin Durant, who had never before played in a loss for USA Basketball in 39 senior international games, had 17 points. Jayson Tatum added 15, Damian Lillard had 14 and Bam Adebayo 11. “Just goes to show that we have to play better,” Tatum said. The Americans had gone 39-0 in their last three Olympic seasons — including pre-Olympic exhibitions — on their way to gold medals and had been 54-2 in major exhibitions since NBA players began playing for USA Basketball in 1992. Plus, they’d beaten Nigeria by a combined 127 points in their last two meetings, one at the 2012 London Games, the other a warm-up for the 2016 Rio Games. Nigeria lost to the U.S. at the 2012 Olympics by 83 points. Lost to the Americans again four years later in an exhibition, that time by 44 points. “Nigeria’s come a long way with their basketball,” USA Basketball Managing Director Jerry Colangelo said. Ike Iroegbu — a former Washington State player who some time in the G League — hit a 3-pointer with about 1:15 left to put Nigeria up 88-80. Durant scored the next seven points for the U.S.; a 3-pointer, two free throws following a turnover, then two more from the line with 16.5 seconds remaining. Nnamdi made two foul shots with 13.2 seconds left to restore Nigeria’s 3-point edge. The Americans ran 9.7 seconds off the clock on the ensuing possession without getting a shot off, and Zach LaVine missed a pair of free throws — the second intentionally — with 3.5 seconds left. Precious Achiuwa got the rebound for Nigeria, and that was it. It’s only an exhibition — but the upset was still of the massive variety, the 22nd-ranked nation by FIBA beating the No. 1-ranked team and three-time reigning Olympic gold medalists. Popovich heard the final buzzer and shook hands with Nigeria coach Mike Brown, the Golden State assistant, as the Americans walked off stunned. “At the end of the day, it doesn’t mean much in the standings as far as where we’re trying to get to,” Brown said. “But it’s a good win for us. I don’t think any African team has been able to beat USA Basketball in an exhibition game or a real game. … We’re trying to get a little bit of momentum for Nigeria and for the continent of Africa.” The U.S. led 43-41 at the half, then pushed the lead out to 52-43 early in the third. But the Nigerians connected on 3s on their next three possessions — Vincent, Achiuwa and Nwamu all connected — and just like that, the game was tied. Achiuwa took one 3-pointer all season with the Heat. It missed. But he connected in this one, as did Miye Oni — who made two 3s in the fourth quarter, including the one that put Nigeria up for good with 6:08 left. Oni averaged all of 1.9 points per game this season for Utah, and made two enormous shots late Saturday to help seal the U.S. fate. “We kept the game simple,” Nnamdi said, “and came out on top.”  Nigeria's national men basketball team, D’Tigers, could field a complete roster of current NBA players at next year's Olympics Games in Tokyo the team’s General Manager Musa Adamu has disclosed. D’Tigers’ 12-man roster for their last international outing at the FIBA World Cup last year marked the first time Nigeria… October 26, 2020 In "Sports" D’Tigress point guard, Promise Amukamara has restated the importance of funding for the team in their quest to compete favorably against some of the best at the Tokyo 2020 Olympics. Speaking from her base in France, the 36th overall WNBA overall draft pick (2015) said to get the best out… February 27, 2021 In "Sports" There are so many issues in the world of sports in recent times good enough as subject of discussion. With the Olympic Games less than two weeks away, there is plenty to talk about but the backlash of the last friendly game Nigeria played in the USA has refused to… July 10, 2021 In "Sports"