 The European Union on Thursday handed down $1 billion in fines to four major German car manufacturers, saying they colluded to limit the development and rollout of car emission control systems. Daimler, BMW, VW, Audi and Porsche avoided competing on technology to restrict pollution from gasoline and diesel passenger cars, the European Commission said. Daimler wasn’t fined after it revealed the cartel to the European Commission. EU antitrust chief Margrethe Vestager said that even though the companies had the technology to cut cut harmful emissions beyond legal limits, they avoided to compete and denied consumers the chance to buy less polluting cars. “Factories compete with one another also when it comes to reducing carbon emissions from the cars,” Vestager said. “Manufacturers deliberately avoided to compete on cleaning better than what was required by EU emission standards. And they did so despite the relevant technology being available.” It made their practice illegal, Vestager said. The case wasn’t directly linked to the “dieselgate” scandal of the past decade, when Volkswagen admitted that about 11 million diesel vehicles worldwide were fitted with the deceptive software, which reduced nitrogen oxide emissions when the cars were placed on a test machine but allowed higher emissions and improved engine performance during normal driving, reports The Associated Press. The scandal cost Wolfsburg, Germany-based Volkswagen 30 billion euros ($35 billion) in fines and civil settlements and led to the recall of millions of vehicles. It was the first time the European Commission imposed collusion fines on holding back the use of technical developments, not a more traditional practice like price fixing.  Volkswagen AG and a German auto supplier on Tuesday asked the U.S. Supreme Court to reverse a lower-court ruling that said two counties could seek financial penalties over excess diesel emissions that could total billions of dollars. The German automaker's U.S. unit and Robert Bosch LLC asked the U.S.… January 27, 2021 In "Motoring" Vice President Yemi Osinbajo has told the international community to preserve finance for gas projects in Nigeria and other developing countries in the transition to net-zero emission. Osinbajo made the submissions yesterday during a virtual meeting with a delegation of the European Union (EU) led by its Executive Vice President,… March 4, 2021 In "News" The continent is witnessing rapid urbanization and improving economies, prompting experts to dub it the final frontier for global carmakers. The German auto industry is switching gears with billions at stake. The first VW car assembled in Rwanda   German carmaker Volkswagen is boosting presence in fledgling African car markets… January 10, 2021 In "Business"