…as institution admits 6,385 students  For gross indiscipline and academic misconduct, over 150 students of the Kogi State Polytechnic, Lokoja, have been expelled for various offences ranging from cultism, examination misconduct, and forging of entry documents.  The Rector of the Polytechnic, Dr. Salisu Usman Ogbo disclosed this during the 28th matriculation of the institution, where no fewer than 6,385 students admitted into the institution for the new academic session, undertook the matriculation oath to abide by the rules and regulations of the polytechnic.  According to the Rector, the figure comprised 4,512 students admitted into the National Diploma (ND) and 1,873 students for the Higher National Diploma (HND) programmes in the various Schools and departments.   Ogbo, who noted that the programme cut across six Schools, including the newly established School of Agricultural Technology in Itakpe Campus, however, reminded the students that the institution “prohibits any lecturer under any guise to force students to buy textbooks or handouts as a pre-condition for performance in the Continuous Assessment (CA) or pass exami-nations.”  Meanwhile, the Rector warned them to shun cultism and all forms of social vices in the institution, saying over 150 students were expelled for various offences concerning their involvement in cultism, examination misconduct, and forging of entry documents.  He, therefore, said: “You should be informed that the polytechnic under my watch has zero-tolerance for all forms of social vices such as cultism, gun-running, examination malpractice, drug abuse, divisive tendencies, cybercrime, incitement, violence, gangsterism, misuse and destruction of school properties, stealing and indecent dressing.  “Since we came on board, we have so far expelled over 150 students for cases involving cultism, examination misconduct, and forging of entry documents among others.  “Painfully but necessarily, following the laid down rules and regulation as contained in the Students’ Information Handbook, we have so far expelled over 150 students as part of our aggressive campaign against rot and unethical engagements by students.”   Dr. Abubakar Abdul Dzukogi is the 11th Rector of Federal Polytechnic Bida. He spoke about his reappointment, achievements in the last four years and the recent controversy generated by the national body of the Academic Staff Union of Polytechnic (ASUP) over his reappointment in this interview AHMED IDRIS. Excerpts… Your… December 5, 2020 In "Politics" . A call has gone to the newly admitted students of the Elizade University, Ilara- Mokin in Ondo State to avail themselves of the opportunities offered by the university to harness their potential to the fullest through their academic sojourn in the institution.   The Vice-Chancellor, Prof. Olukayode Amund made… February 16, 2021 In "Education" No fewer than 1,394 fresh students admitted into various Faculties and Departments of the Plateau State University (PLASU) for the 2019/2020 academic session have undertaken the matriculation and oath of allegiance of the institution.   The matriculation oath was administered on the students, who were admitted into the Faculties of… May 4, 2021 In "Education"