 Japan’s government is floating proposals that would ban fans from all events at this month’s Olympics, the Mainichi newspaper reported on Wednesday, as officials scramble to address public concerns about the spread of the coronavirus.
Medical experts have said for weeks that no spectators at the global sporting extravaganza that starts on July 23 would be the least risky option. Organisers have already banned overseas spectators and set a cap on domestic spectators at 50% of capacity, up to 10,000 people, to contain a lingering outbreak of infections, reports Reuters.
The Mainichi, citing sources within government, said such discussions were partly the result of political considerations after Prime Minister Yoshihide Suga’s ruling party failed to win a majority in an election for the Tokyo’s assembly on Sunday. The vote, ahead of a general election later this year, was seen as reflecting some voter dissatisfaction over the government’s virus response.
The report further highlights the steep logistical challenges surrounding the Games, which have been dogged by a year of near daily debate about its possible impact on the spread of COVID-19 in Japan.
In response to the Mainichi story, the Tokyo 2020 organising committee said restrictions on the number of spectators, including non-spectator competitions, will be based on the content of the state of emergency or other relevant measures in force at any time after July 12.
On Thursday, the government is likely to extend a state of quasi-emergency in Tokyo and three nearby prefectures beyond an original end-date of July 11, government sources have said.
Kyodo News reported the extension would likely last a month, meaning the curbs will be in place throughout the Olympics, which close on Aug. 8.
TALKS
The issue of spectators at other Olympic events is due to be decided at five-way talks on Thursday including the Tokyo governor and IOC President Thomas Bach, who arrives in Japan that day.
Asked about the issue of spectators at a press conference on Tuesday, top government spokesman Katsunobu Kato said Suga has said holding the Games without spectators was a possibility.
Shigeru Omi, the government’s top health adviser, told a parliamentary health committee on Wednesday it was important to reduce the number of Olympic officials and others attending events as much as possible.
Early July to September, which covers the period of the Olympic Games, represents “one of the most important periods” in combating the virus in Japan, he said.
“We have been saying that it’s preferable that the events be held without spectators,” said Omi. “We are asking many people to take steps to prevent further spread of the infection. Images of spectators would be sending out a contradictory message to a lot of people … In formulating our coronavuirus response, people’s feelings are a very important factor.”
In a another blow to the spectacle of the Games, Tokyo organisers announced on Tuesday they would ask the public not to gather on the streets for the Olympic marathon, one of the most popular and iconic events of the Games.
Tokyo’s metropolitan government has also decided to move most of the torch relay, set to reach the capital on Friday, off public roads.
Japan has not experienced the kind of explosive COVID-19 outbreaks seen elsewhere but has seen more than 800,000 cases and 14,800 deaths. A slow rollout has meant only a quarter of its population has had at least one COVID-19 vaccination shot.  Japan could allow up to 10 000 fans at sports events ahead of the Olympics, media reported Wednesday, as organisers weigh how many domestic fans can attend the Games. The measure, intended to come into force after a coronavirus state of emergency ends on June 20, will be discussed… June 16, 2021 In "Sports" ...as Japan considers asking Olympic fans for negative COVID tests, vaccinations The U.S. men's 3x3 basketball team have failed to qualify for the Tokyo Olympics after the 2019 world champions lost to the Netherlands in the quarter-finals of the qualifying tournament on Sunday. While the U.S. women sealed a spot… May 31, 2021 In "Sports" Fans from overseas had already been banned from the Games but it has been confirmed that spectators from Japan will be allowed. Capacity will be set at 10,000 spectators, provided it does not exceed 50% of a venue's capacity. Fans will not be allowed to shout or speak loudly,… June 21, 2021 In "Sports"