 Edwin Usoboh Popular singer, Olarenwaju Fasasi better known as Sound Sultan, is dead. The 44-year-old ‘Jagbajantis’ crooner, lost his battle with cancer of the throat. The artist was few month ago reported to have commenced chemotherapy in one of the hospitals in the country. Chemotherapy is an aggressive form of chemical drug therapy meant to destroy rapidly growing cells in the body. It’s usually used to treat cancer, as cancer cells grow and divide faster than other cells. Sound Sultan’s career in show business started in the 1990s, when he hosted shows to raise money for studio sessions. By 1999, he had won numerous local talent-hunt shows. He released his first single ‘Jagbajantis’ in 2000, which was a hit in Nigeria. After independently releasing other singles and featuring in hit songs of other artists, he was signed by Kennis Music. Sound Sultan began a working relationship with Wyclef Jean when featured alongside 2face Idibia and Faze on ‘Proud to be African’ from Wyclef’s ‘Welcome to Haiti: Creole 101’ album. In 2012, it was announced that Sound Sultan was made a UN Ambassador for Peace for his exemplary lifestyle and career. In 2015, Sound Sultan released the rap single ‘Remember’ after a long absence from the music scene. After the fallout of the African Basketball League, he joined forces with the organisers of the Continental Basketball League to become a team owner of Lagos City Stars (the 2017 champions) and a facilitator of the league entertainment.  Popular Nigerian rapper, Olanrewaju Fasasi, professionally known as Sound Sultan, is presently battling throat cancer in the US, a report has claimed. The singer we learnt was jetted out of Nigeria to commence chemotherapy following his diagnosis. Sound Sultan’s career in show business started in the 90s when he hosted… May 14, 2021 In "Arts & Entertainments" Popular singer, Lanre Fasasi better known as Sound Sultan, is dead. The 44-year-old 'Jagbajantis' crooner, lost it to his battle with cancer of the throat. Details later... July 11, 2021 In "Top Stories" Cancer is responsible for 72,000 deaths in Nigeria every year, with an estimated 102,000 new cases of cancer annually. Against the background of side effects from chemotherapy, a recommended life-saving procedure for the treatment and management of cancer, experts said using diet, lifestyle and other drugs to cope with the… October 29, 2020 In "Health"