 Bello Matawalle, Governor of Zamfara State, has relieved all his special advisers of their appointments.
In a statement on Sunday, Kabiru Balarabe, acting Secretary of the State Government and Head of Service, said the governor’s decision is in line with his recent defection to the All Progressives Congress (APC).
Matawalle defected from the PDP to the APC on Tuesday after several months of speculation. The governor said he defected to bring peace to Zamfara.
Balarabe in his statement, however, said Mamman Tsafe, the Special Adviser on Security, was not affected by the development.
“It is hereby notified for general information that Governor Bello Matawalle, has relieved all Special Advisers of their appointments, except the Special Adviser on Security matters,” the statement reads.
“This decision is in line with the recent defection to the APC and to allow for an in-depth search of more but competent hands in the administration of the state, irrespective of political affiliations.
Balarabe directed all the affected special advisers to hand over affairs of their respective offices, and government property under them to their directors general or accounting officers.
According to NAN, he also extended the governor’s appreciation to them for their contributions towards the development of the state.
The governor had in May dissolved his state executive council.
But on June 8, he re-appointed three commissioners and three board chairmen.  Zamfara State Governor, Bello Muhammad Matawalle, has congratulated the parents of the released students of Government Science Secondary School Kankara, Katsina State, just as he tackled the All Progressives Congress (APC) that the state harbours bandits and other dangerous criminals. A statement issued by the Special Adviser to the governor… December 19, 2020 In "News" The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has advised Zamfara State Governor, Bello Matawalle, who defected to the All Progreasives Congress (APC) to handover to his deputy in accordance with the 1999 constitution, as amended.   The party, which described the governor's boast that he could not be intimidated by the PDP… July 4, 2021 In "News" Zamfara State Governor, Bello Mohammed Matawalle, has dissolved the State Executive Council involving the Secretary to the State Government (SSG), Chief of Staff (CoS), Deputy Chief of Staff, all chairmen and members of the state commissions and boards of various agencies. The cabinet dissolution was with immediate effect as contained… June 2, 2021 In "News"