There is no doubt that the ongoing war against corruption by the Muhammadu Buhari administration has succeeded in cowing most politicians, especially members of the opposition political parties. While some are facing trial for their respective roles in the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP)-led administration, others either escaped abroad or went underground. But, to some who are yet to be quizzed, the best option is to shun politicking for now to avoid having the various anti-graft agencies beam their searchlight on them. This has resulted to known vocal political leaders opting not to comment on national issues at least for now.Politricks encountered one of them recently, and when asked to comment on the state of the nation, he pleaded to be left alone to avoid attracting the attention of the antigraft agencies. He practically begged Politricks to leave him out of Nigeria’s issues for now to avoid being embarrassed as a result of what his views. “My brother, no comment for now to avoid talking myself into trouble,” he said.  Less than two years to the 2023 presidential election, the unresolved issues of zoning among the two main political parties as well as cash crunch are said to be reasons why none of those nursing ambition to contest the poll has publicly declared interest.   New Telegraph gathered from… March 22, 2021 In "News" ADC: Tell Nigerians how much has been re-looted Nigeria's main opposition party, the Peoples Democrat i c Party (PDP), yesterday, challenged the Federal Government to account for the N800 billion it recovered from some corrupt Nigerians. The main opposition party expressed doubts at the claims as well as the whereabouts… July 30, 2020 In "News" Umahi, Anyim's groups battle for Ebonyi   Two political forces have surfaced in Ebonyi State polity with drumbeat of war ahead of 2023 general election the way it occurred in 2003 when former Senate President, Anyim Pius Anyim and the then Governor, Sam Egwu led the two groups, UCHENNA INYA… December 16, 2020 In "Politics"