The House of Representatives Thursday rejected calls for the ban on Twitter to be lifted The rejection was endorsed after considering the report of its joint committees on information, national orientation, ethics and values, telecommunications, information and technology, justice, and national security and intelligence on the Federal Government’s suspension of the operations of the social media network. Deputy Minority leader, Hon. Toby Okechuwku had in the course of the consideration moved an amendment seeking the lifting of the ban following the negative impact of the ban. It was, however, rejected by members when put to voice vote. The House instead gave the Federal Government and Twitter an ultimatum to create room for an amicable dialogue and settlement of the ban The House equally asked the Federal Government to pro-active in their interface with Twitter so as to come up with timely resolution on the matter. It said the Federal Government should take into cognisance the negative effect of the Twitter suspension on Nigerians who depend on the platform for their livelihood. The House urged relevant government institutions such as the National Broadcasting Commission, Nigeria Communication Satellite, etc. to be alive to their mandate by doing the needful to avoid any future occurrence of this nature. The House said freedom of expression is not absolute anywhere in the world.  The House of Representatives Thursday rejected calls for the ban on Twitter to be lifted The rejection was endorsed after considering the report of its joint committees on information, national orientation, ethics and values, telecommunications, information and technology, justice, and national security and intelligence on the Federal Government’s suspension of… July 1, 2021 In "News" ...as PDP reps stage walkout, say they will continue to use microblogging site   Members of the House Representatives have resolved to invite the Minister of Culture and Information, Lai Mohammed in a bid to investigate the legality of the Twitter ban by the Federal Government. The decision was reached… June 8, 2021 In "Top Stories" •It’s unconstitutional –PDP   The Attorney General of the Federation and Minister of Justice, Abubakar Malami, SAN yesterday directed for immediate prosecution of offenders of the Federal Government’s ban on Twitter operations in Nigeria.   This was contained in a statement issued by Malami's media aide, Dr. Umar Gwandu, in… June 6, 2021 In "News"