Former Anambra State governor, Mr. Peter Obi, has appealed to leaders at all levels of government to avoid actions capable of inflicting more hardship on Nigerians, especially in this period that life is manifestly very tough for them.  Obi gave the advice when newsmen paid him a visit at Onitsha. He lamented that things were going from bad to worse for majority of Nigerians owing to the mindless actions of some leaders.  Speaking specifically on people’s houses being demolished across the country by Government of various States and the Federal Capital Territory, Obi advised that what those in government should be doing now is to fashion out strategies to pull people out of poverty rather than aggravating their misery.  He said: “Much as I agree that some people live in houses that are not under official regulation, Government can, for those that are  neither manifestly bad nor causing obstruction, regularise their papers.  Even for those that are manifestly bad, now is not a good time to demolish such buildings, without providing alternatives, especially when it is the poor that are always at the receiving end”.  Obi observed that but for cumulative years of bad leadership caused principally by the elite, the situation in the country would not be as bad as it is, compelling the poor and under-privileged to seek survival by any means possible.  He cautioned that the sooner Nigerian leaders realise this dire situation and resolve to build a better country, the better for everybody; “otherwise”, he warned, “the society we abuse today will take its revenge on us in due time.” He further encouraged Nigerians to always pursue hard-work and avoid actions which will result in the breakdown of law and order.  Says politicians must put restructuring ahead of ambition Former Governor of Anambra State and Vice Presidential Candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in the 2019 general election, Mr. Peter Obi, yesterday, disclosed that he has been under pressure to join the 2023 presidential race but was reluctant, given the… May 26, 2021 In "News" A monarch is on self-imposed exile fearing for his life. His community insists he is gone for good. Youths, men and women are protesting against his actions, but elders are calling for caution. Yet, his whereabouts is unknown to many who are shouting to the rooftops. Another monarch was “invited”… July 31, 2020 In "News" When last May, the South-East Governors’ Forum rejected the template of the Inspector General of Police for Community Policing, the people of the region were hopeful that a regional security outfit was in the making.   This was especially after the Forum had reportedly mandated governments of the five states… September 6, 2020 In "News"