…holds NYSC not mandatory requirement for holding political office The Federal High Court sitting in Abuja yesterday absolved a former Finance Minister, Mrs. Kemi Adeosun of the controversy over her participation or otherwise in the National Youths Service Corps (NYSC) scheme. The trial judge, Justice Taiwo Taiwo, in a judgment, held that Adeosun was not qualified to have participated in the scheme when she graduated at 22 years old because she was then a British citizen. Adeosun graduated from the University of East London in 1989 at the age of 22 The judge further held that as at when she formally returned to Nigeria, and became a Nigerian citizen, at over 30 years, she was not eligible to present herself for the NYSC service. The Court further held that the plaintiff or anyone did not require a discharge certificate of NYSC to qualify to contest election to the House of Representatives or be appointed a Minister in Nigeria. The judgment of the court was premised on a suit marked: FHC/ABJ/ CS/303/2021 filed by Adeosun through the law firm of Chief Wole Olanipekun (SAN). Cited as the sole defendant is the Attorney General of the Federation (AGF). The court, however, granted the four reliefs sought by the plaintiff. She prayed the court to give an order that the plaintiff is under no constitutional disability, disadvantage, prohibition, inhibition or disqualification to hold any of the following offices established by the Constitution, to wit: offices of member of the House of Assembly of a State, a Commissioner in the State Executive Council; Governor of a State; member of the National Assembly; Minister in the Federal Executive Council or the President of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, on the ground that she did not participate in the National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) scheme, established by the National Youth Service Corps Act, CAP N84, LFN 2004. She also prayed the court to make an order that: “The plaintiff is not under any constitutional disability, disadvantage, prohibition, inhibition or disqualification to hold any office as member or Chairman of any of the State Executive or Federal Executive bodies established by the Constitution or otherwise, on the ground that she did not participate in the National Youth Service Corps scheme, established by the National Youth Service Corps Act, CAP N84, LFN 2004.” Responding to the ruling, Adeosun’s counsel said: “Today’s ruling vindicates my client. The court has made it clear that at the time she presented for public service starting from 2011 up till 2015, she was not required to perform the NYSC under the 1979 Constitution, since client graduated in 1989. “Throughout client’s travails which lasted 69 days, my client was never in doubt about her innocence.”   A Federal High Court in Abuja on Wednesday ruled that former Minister of Finance Mrs. Kemi Adeosun was ineligible for national service. The court said she was not supposed to present herself for National Youth Service because under the 1979 Constitution, which was in force at the time of… July 7, 2021 In "News" A former Minister of Finance, Mrs. Kemi Adeosun, has said that the ruling of the Federal High Court, Abuja, in the National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) certificate scandal involving her, has vindicated her after a very traumatic spell. Adeosun resigned after she was accused of forging an NYSC certificate, which… July 8, 2021 In "News" Since her exit from public life in September 2018, former Minister of Finance, Mrs. Kemi Adeosun, has kept a low profile from virtually everyone and everything. But her recent return, last month, with the launch of her foundation, DashMe, has raised fresh expectation that the former minister is back with… July 6, 2021 In "Politics"