The Minister of Youth and sports Development, Sunday Dare, has once again emphasized the importance of developing other sports through private public partnership.  The Minister made this assertion at the final of the Dr and Mrs. Daniel Olukoya Women Basketball Championship which held on Sunday in Lagos. “Basketball is on ascendance in Nigeria and nothing confirms that more than the fact that the Tigress and the Tigers will be at the Olympics,” he said. “This is another great basketball game and the fact that these young ones have exhibited so much skills and abundance of talents gives me hope that the future of basketball in Nigeria is very bright especially when you start from the grass root.  “When you catch-them-young from 15, 16, 17, 18 you will realise that the future of both male and female Basketball is indeed very bright.  “In the forthcoming Olympics, the Tigers and Tigress will be representing Nigeria as well as Africa and we look forward to an excellent performance. “Team Nigeria first batch to Tokyo leaves on July 5th, while the second batch departs on July 13th. The last batch joins them on July 19th.”  General Overseer, Mountain of Fire and Miracles Ministries, Dr Daniel Olukoya has commended the high level of organization and interest the 1st Dr & Mrs D. K. Olukoya Women Basketball competition has generated since the event began in Lagos. While speaking with the Director of Sports, MFM, Godwin Enakhena, the… July 3, 2021 In "Sports" Minister of Youth and Sports Development Mr Sunday Dare has been honoured by the Association of National Olympics Committees of Africa with the Highest Order of Sports Administrator Award for his immense contributions to the growth of the Olympics Movement and Sports in Africa. Conferring the Award on the Minister… May 12, 2021 In "Sports" Minister of Youth and Sports, Mr Sunday Dare, has showered encomiums on the board of the Nigeria Basketball Federation for its continued efforts in rewriting the history of basketball in Nigeria.   Speaking recently in Lagos, Dare noted that the NBBF board under the leadership of Musa Kida has made… September 28, 2020 In "Sports"