  Francis Ogbuagu, Benin City  Nine travellers who were reportedly abducted on Sunday morning along the Benin-Auchi Road around Igieduma/Ehor section of the highway in Edo State have regained their freedom. The victims were rescued through the efforts of police operatives from Ehor Division of the Edo Police Command hours after the incident took place. The kidnapped victims, comprising three males and six females, were abducted around 7:35am on Sunday when the 14-seater Toyota Hiace bus they were travelling with was forcefully hijacked by arms wielding hoodlums. The incident occurred at Igieduma village along Benin-Auchi Road when the victims were travelling from Auchi to Benin A statement on Sunday night by the spokesman of the Edo Police Command, SP Kontongs Bello, confirmed the release of the victims. Bello said the hoodlums were forced to abandon their captives following urgent rescue efforts by its operatives from Ehor Police Station who combed the neighbouring bushes in the area for the kidnappers. The statement said the gunmen who had already moved the victims into Igieduma forest reserve had no option but to release them owing to the superior power of the police operatives.   Over 24 abducted in two weeks Kidnappers are now on the prowl in Edo State with abduction of victims, especially travellers on a daily basis. In the past two weeks, about 24 people, including high-profile individuals, passengers of an Abuja-bound commercial bus belonging to a popular transporter near Ogbemudia farm… December 4, 2020 In "Metro & Crime" ·       Obaseki expresses shock, tasks police to rescue victims It was double misfortune for the family of the former Speaker of Edo State House of Assembly, Zakawanu Garuba after the former legislator died on Saturday morning and his widow, Hasana was kidnapped on the way to bury her late husband. According… July 18, 2020 In "News" Cajetan Mmuta, Benin Anxiety heightened Tuesday in parts of  Edo State as heavily armed men suspected to be kidnappers siezed all the passengers of an 18-seater commercial bus along the Benin-Auchi-Abuja road. The bus belongs to a popular transporter in Benin the state capita. The fully loaded bus was… December 22, 2020 In "Metro & Crime"