Following the hazy nature of the recent arrest of the leader of the Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB), Mazi Nnamdi Kanu by Nigerian authorities, his brother, Kingsley Kanu, has clarified that his brother was arrested in Kenya. Apparently, this became necessary following the guessing game in the media on where and how the separatist leader was arrested. Stating that the arrest of his brother violated extant laws, Kingsley Kanu, in a statement, said, “News has reached Mazi Nnamdi Kanu’s family that he has been unlawfully arrested in Kenya, detained and has subsequently been the subject of extraordinary rendition from Kenya to Nigeria where he is now detained. “My brother Nnamdi Kanu demands the right to self-determination for Biafra. Self-determination is the right that underpins the United Nations. Because Biafrans support Nnamdi Kanu’s call for Biafran self-determination, my brother has now been subjected to the most serious violations of international law.” Kingsley Kanu noted that whilst visiting Ke-nya, Nnamdi Kanu was detained and handed over to the Nigerian authorities who then flew him to Nigeria. His statement continued: “My brother has been subject to extraordinary rendition by Kenya and Nigeria. They have violated the most basic principles of the rule of law. Extraordinary rendition is one of the most serious crimes states can commit. Both Nigeria and Kenya must be held to account. I demand justice for my brother, Nnamdi Kanu.” He urged the British High Commission in Nigeria to insist on Kanu’s immediate release.  Kingsley Kanu, a sibling of Nnamdi Kanu, leader of the Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB), says his brother was arrested in Kenya. The Federal Government has been silent on the location where Kanu was arrest and this has fueled speculations. But in a statement on Wednesday, Kingsley said Kenyan… June 30, 2021 In "Top Stories" The leader of the proscribed group, the Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB), Mr. Nnamdi Kanu, last week, took his bizarre acts to a new height. Kanu, a self-aclaimed Biafra activist and leader of the group, on his live Facebook broadcast, told his followers to stone to death, the President General… July 8, 2020 In "Editorial" ...court remands IPOB leader in DSS custody, to continue trial July 26 Lawyers yesterday said the bail bond entered by Senator Eyinnaya Abaribe and two others who stood as sureties for the leader of the proscribed Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB), Nnamdi Kanu cannot be recovered under the law even… June 30, 2021 In "News"