 APC Youth Coalition for Good Governance have commended the Chairman Caretaker Committee of All Progressives Congress (APC), Mr Maimala Buni for his quick action to control the party at the time when it was heading to collapse. The group also commended Buni, who is the Governor of Yobe State, for his efforts to reconcile aggrieved members of the ruling party. Addressing journalists in Kano on Wednesday, the group’s leader, Mr Bello Gambo Gude said Buni deserves commendation from every loyal member of APC for wooing the governors of Zamfara, Cross Rivers and Ebonyi states to decamp to the party. “It is apparent that Governor Maimala Buni has done tremendously well in saving our great party from collapse. “The governor has moved every nook and cranny to ensure the party has been out in one house. He deserves our commendation for the reconciliation effort among the aggrieved members of the party. “He also deserves commendation for wooing the Zamfara, Cross River and Ebonyi state governors who recently decamped to the APC. This is commendable.” The APC youth coalition also lambasted those who have sued the party, and asked them to immediately withdraw the case for the progress of the party.  Chairman of the All Progressives Congress (APC) Caretaker/ Extra-Ordinary Convention Planning Committee, Governor Mai Mala Buni has disagreed with the party's interim National Chairman, Chief Bisi Akande on the ongoing membership registration and revalidation process. Akande had, on Wednesday, said that the membership registration was not necessary as the previous… February 5, 2021 In "News" Zamfara goverment says 18 All Progressives Congress (APC) governors are expected to receive Governor Bello Matawalle into their party on Tuesday. The Chairman, Publicity Sub-Committee of the organising ceremony and Zamfara Commissioner for Information, Alhaji Ibrahim Dosara, disclosed in an interview with the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) in… June 28, 2021 In "News" ...says Buni has raised political mobilization While the opposition Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) is demanding for the sack of the governor of Zamfara State, Hon. Bello Matawalle by the court for defecting to the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC), the Progressive Governors Forum (PGF) has welcomed the governor into its… July 13, 2021 In "Politics"