 The Chief Executive Officer (CEO) of Oil Money Records, Alafaa Kariboye-Igbo is optimistic about investing in showbusiness.
The business mogul, who recently expanded his business empire, said that his record label biggest goal is to make at least five music superstars that will wow the world.
“We will be pushing all genres of music, all that matter is the uniqueness and creativity of the artistes. We hope to have made at least five superstars in the entertainment industry in the next five to ten years.”
Launched early this year, Oil Money Record Label has been the talk of the town in the music industry. On why he decided to set up a record label instead of other business ventures he could go into,  Alafaa Kariboye-Igbo, popularly known as ‘Oil Money’,  said: “The label was set up to assist talented young, up-and-coming artistes have a platform to achieve their dream of to becoming global brands.”
According to him, the label which became operational in March already has two artistes in its stable.
“We have Jaydboy and Clova Fresh. But as time goes on, more artistes will be signed onto the label,” he said.
For numerous aspiring musicians who have been angling to know how the label chooses its artistes, Oil Money offered an insight: “We signed artistes for their uniqueness and creativity.”
He added: “The vision of Oil Money Record is to take over the global music scene by nurturing and promoting artistes that would not be limited to one country or continent, but rather, globally accepted.”
And to lovers of good music, Oil Money assured: “Fans should expect something crazy and mind-blowing this year as the record label is working full-time to bring about new and creative sound to the industry.”  Michael Odiong is a former dancer, actor-turned music manager. Currently the Special Projects Manager, Premier Records Limited, Odiong, in this interview with TONY OKUYEME, talks about the Nigerian music industry, Premier Records at 58 and his interest in acting. He also shares his thoughts about fake lifestyle that has become… March 26, 2021 In "Arts & Entertainments" Born Ayorinde Kehinde Okiki, DJ Kaywise has built a career that many have come to hold in high esteem over time. From producing mixtapes and selling them at the Alaba market to DJing at premium events and then turning around to become a recording artiste, it’s been a rollercoaster journey… May 15, 2021 In "Arts & Entertainments" Between the 80s, 90s and now, the Nigerian entertainment industry has witnessed a radical shift in the prevalence of kid talents, from actors, comedians to musicians. Gone are the days when smarty kids will leave your womb in awe with the breathtaking talent they display on Television. There was Peter… August 22, 2020 In "Arts & Entertainments"