The Nigeria Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative (NEITI) has deepened partnership with the Ministry of Mines and Steel Development (MMSD) with a view to improve revenue contributions from the mining sector to the Federation Account.  Speaking at a meeting between both organisations at the weekend in Abuja, NEITI’s Executive Secretary, Dr. Orji Ogbonnaya Orji, who said revenue and contributions from the solid minerals sector should be accounted for and properly attributed to the ministry, noted that findings of the latest NEITI solid minerals report showed phenomenal revenue growth from the  sector.  He said: “I appeal to the minister to take special interests in the work that NEITI does because it will support the on-going reforms in the Ministry.  When you have reliable data, it can be used to institute effective planning and governance of the sector and diversify the revenue sources of the nation.  “NEITI mandate is all about reconciling what companies paid to government and what government received in taxes, royalties, rents and all statutory titles and payments.  I must confess that all your key parastatals and departments cooperate with us during this reconciliation exercise, but we could deepen this relationship further.”   ...advocates full audit to recover unpaid taxes Abandoned mining sites reclaimed at N534.81m     The Nigeria Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative (NEITI) has said Nigeria earned N79.96 billion from the solid minerals sector in 2019, rep-Regina Otokpa Abuja       The Nigeria Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative (NEITI) has said… June 21, 2021 In "News" ...to increase focus on mining sector The Nigeria Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative (NEITI) has disclosed plans to adopt workable policies and strategies to ensure the recoverable revenues of N69.51 billion and $5.31 billion still outstanding from oil and gas companies, were recovered. New Executive Secretary of NEITI, Dr. Orji Ogbonnaya… March 17, 2021 In "News" The Nigeria Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative (NEITI), has called for resuscitation of the Inter- Ministerial Task Team (IMTT) set up by the Federal Government, to address the remedial issues in the oil and gas sector. Shortly after resuming office, Executive Secretary of NEITI, Dr. Orji Ogbonnaya Orji, revealed that statutory… April 28, 2021 In "News"