 Pope Francis is continuing a normal recovery from intestinal surgery, gradually resuming work, walking and eating with aides, the Vatican said on Saturday, adding his blood tests were satisfactory. The 84-year-old pope is in hospital after undergoing a three-hour operation on Sunday to remove part of his colon, which the Vatican said had narrowed severely, reports Reuters. Francis had a calm day on Friday, spokesman Matteo Bruni said, adding that the pontiff was continuing with the prescribed treatment. “In the afternoon, he celebrated Holy Mass in the private chapel and in the evening he dined with those who are assisting him during these days,” Bruni said in a statement. It is the first time Francis has been hospitalised since he became pope in 2013. The Vatican has already announced that Francis will deliver his traditional Sunday noon prayer and message from the 10th floor of the Gemelli hospital, where a suite is reserved for popes. It will be the first time since his election as pope that he will not read the prayer from the Vatican, except for when he was away on trips.  Pope Francis has undergone successful surgery to treat a colon problem at a hospital in Rome, the Vatican says. The 84-year-old "responded well" to the treatment, which was performed under general anaesthetic, Vatican spokesman Matteo Bruni said. It is the first time Pope Francis has been admitted to hospital… July 5, 2021 In "News" Pope Francis has been admitted to hospital in Rome for scheduled surgery to treat a colon problem. Vatican spokesman Matteo Bruni said there would be more information after the surgery had taken place at the Gemelli University Hospital, reports the BBC. Earlier on Sunday, the 84-year-old Pope addressed thousands of… July 4, 2021 In "News" Former Pope Benedict XVI, the first pontiff in 600 years to resign instead of ruling for life, is seriously ill, a German newspaper reported on Monday. The newspaper, Passauer Neue Presse, cited Benedict's biographer, German author Peter Seewald, who met the 93-year-old emeritus pope at the Vatican on Saturday.… August 3, 2020 In "News"