 The Senate on Thursday started the screening of nominees for appointment as National Commissioners for the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC). The nominees, including one of the aides of the President Muhammadu Buhari, Lauretta Onochie, are already in the Senate for the exercise. Onochie arrived at the Senate wing of the National Assembly about 11 am; accompanied by the Special Adviser to the President on National Assembly Matters, Babajide Omoworare. She was immediately ushered into the office of the Chairman of the Senate Committee on INEC, Senator Kabri Gaya. Onochie is currently waiting for her turn to be screened by the Senate panel. The nomination of Onochie, who currently serves as Senior Special Assistant on New Media to President Buhari, has provoked serious public outcry with the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), kicking against her nomination. The PDP said Onochie is a card-carrying member of the ruling All Progressives Congress; and by virtue of her political affiliation with the APC, she is not fit and proper to be appointed as an election officer. The party argued that Onochie would pollute the atmosphere of neutrality, and fair play in the Commission if the Senate goes ahead to approve her nomination. Other nominees include Professor Muhammad Sani Kallah(Katsina); Professor, Kunle Cornelius Ajayi(Ekiti), and Saidu Babura Ahmad (Jigawa). They also included Professor Sani Muhammad Adam(North-Central); Dr. Baba Bila (North East).   Several civil society organisations (CSOs) and opposition Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) have kicked against the nomination of a presidential aide, Lauretta Onochie, to serve as National Commissioner at the Independent National Commission (INEC) and have demanded the withdrawal of her nomination. The Senate had, yesterday, received a request from President… October 14, 2020 In "News" ... urges Senate to investigate other nominees  The Nigeria Civil Society Situation Room has asked President Muhammadu Buhari to immediately withdraw the nomination of his Senior Special Assistant on Social Media, Ms.Lauretta Onochie as National Commissioner of the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC). The Situation Room is made up of Civil Society… October 13, 2020 In "News" Despite the opposition of the Senate Minority Leader, Senator Enyinnaya Abaribe, to her nomination, the Senate, yesterday, commenced a move to confirm President Muhammadu Buhari’s social media aide, Lauretta Onochie, alongside others as Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) Commissioners. Abaribe had kicked against the inclusion of Onochie among the six… June 10, 2021 In "News"