Suspected Fulani bandits yesterday attacked the Tse Aande, Mbaner, Mbagwen, Agan Council Ward, Makurdi Local Government Area of Benue State, leaving at least three farmers dead.  The attackers invaded the local government in the early hours of Sunday shooting sporadically when the people were still sleeping. Chairman of Makurdi Local Government Area, Anthony Dyegeh, confirmed the attack and murder of his subjects, saying many other people sustained varying degrees of injuries.  Speaking, Dyegeh expressed worry over the incessant attacks which according to him, will go a long way to worsen the prevailing food insecurity in the state. Dyegeh personally visited the scene of the attack accompanied by Major Ukpo, Artillery Commandant of 72 Barracks and several military personnel for an on the spot assessment of destruction caused by the militants.  Speaking during the assessment tour, Dyegeh lamented over the killings and called on security personnel to intensity surveillance to end the attacks.  Suspected Fulani bandits Sunday attacked the Tse Aande, Mbaner, Mbagwen, Agan council ward in Makurdi Local Government Area of Benue State leaving at least three farmers dead. The attackers invaded the local government in the early hours of Sunday shooting sporadically when the people were still sleeping. Chairman of the… July 11, 2021 In "Metro & Crime" CEPHAS IORHEMEN reports that Governor Samuel Ortom of Benue State appears to be the hero of the anti-open grazing campaign, following the recent declaration by southern governors on the issue     When the governor of Benue State, Samuel Ortom, began the fight against militant herdsmen, who were then attacking… May 18, 2021 In "Politics" ...launch assault on Benue, Taraba, Nasarawa bandits   Troops of the Operation Whirl-Stroke (OPWS) over the weekend launched a heavy aerial bombardment on bandits' hideouts in Benue State in an effort to flush them out and return peace to the state.   The air strike, which started at about 8… May 10, 2021 In "News"