The House of Representatives yesterday disclosed that it has resolved to address the fall of the naira and the worsening rate of inflation in the country. The decision was consequent to the adoption of a motion brought by Hon. Shehu Kakale (PDP, Sokoto) at the plenary. Leading debate on the motion, Kakale said that the economic situation in the country was deteriorating at a worrisome rate. He added that insecurity, hyperinflation, massive unemployment and underemployment pervaded all sectors of the economy. According to him, inflation had promoted social pressures and general dissatisfaction. He stated that with the ever-recurring policy challenges, corruption and the over-reliance on crude oil, if not urgently addressed, might lead to a dangerous cauldron of ethnic tension. He said it could also lead to youth discontent and criminality, which could spread more poverty and violence in the country. The lawmaker noted that insecurity was a major impediment to economic growth, which had cost Nigeria over $10.3 billion in 2020, an amount more than the Federal Government’s total revenue for the same year. He stated that the growing case of insecurity had affected agricultural production as farmers could no longer go to the farm, while traders could no longer travel for fear of being kidnapped, abducted or outrightly killed. He said that unless urgent steps were taken to ameliorate the situation, it might degenerate into social decay and crises in homes that could increase the suicidal tendencies and statistics in Nigeria. Kakale maintained that the rise in inflation rate in the country had led to astronomical rise in food prices, taking them virtually out of the reach of the middle and lower classes. The House, therefore, urged the Federal Government to convoke a special economic roundtable to proffer holistic and workable solutions to the situation. The House also urged the Federal Ministry of Agriculture and Natural Resources to come up with urgent emergency plans to expand the economy, especially in the areas of entrepreneurial and agricultural training. The House further asked the Ministry of Commerce, Trade and Investment to deploy intervention strategies to ameliorate the current economic situation and checkmate the food crises in the country. It also mandated the Committee on Finance and Commerce to ensure implementation.   As widely predicted, inflation maintained an upward trajectory in Q1’21 as the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) held its accommodative monetary stance and intervention policies to spur economic growth, writes TONY CHUKWUNYEM   Unveiling the apex bank’s policy direction for 2021 in his address at the Annual Bankers’ Dinner organised… April 7, 2021 In "Business" Ahead of the announcement of inflation figure by the National Bureau of Statistics next week, financial analysts at Financial Derivatives Company (FDC) have predicted that headline figure will hit 18.77 percent in April. According to Analysts, an increase of 0.6 percent is expected from from 18.17 percent in March to… May 15, 2021 In "Business" • MAN, LCCI lament poor state of economy • Cost of production jumps, as unsold inventory increase   As price of goods and basic necessities continue to rise daily in the Nigerian markets, after food inflation rose to 23.7 per cent month-on-month in February and inflation reached a four year… April 25, 2021 In "Business"