 A teenage basketball prodigy has become the first African American to win the US Scripps National Spelling Bee.
Zaila Avant-garde, a 14-year-old from New Orleans, Louisiana, cruised to victory with the word “murraya”, a type of tropical tree, reports the BBC.
To get to that point she had to spell out “querimonious” and “solidungulate”.
Despite practising for up to seven hours a day, she describes spelling as a side hobby – Zaila’s main focus is on becoming a basketball pro.
She already holds three world records for dribbling multiple balls at once, and has appeared in an advertisement with the NBA megastar Stephen Curry.
Zaila saw off a field of 11 finalists on Thursday to win the title and bagged a first-place prize of $50,000 (£36,000) at the event in Orlando, Florida.
In the final round, she beat 12-year-old Chaitra Thummala of Frisco, Texas.
It was the first time since 2008 that at least one champion or co-champion of the Scripps National Spelling Bee was not of South Asian descent, the Associated Press news agency reports.
Zaila had earlier in the evening hesitated over the word nepeta, a herbal mint, but managed to spell it correctly.
“For spelling, I usually try to do about 13,000 words [per day], and that usually takes about seven hours or so,” the home-schooled teen told New Orleans paper the Times-Picayune.
“We don’t let it go way too overboard, of course. I’ve got school and basketball to do.”
Zaila is the second black girl to win the tournament – Jody-Anne Maxwell, of Jamaica, was crowned champion in 1998 at the age of 12.
In 2019, eight children came joint-first for the first time in the spelling bee’s history. The tournament was cancelled last year because of the Covid-19 pandemic.  Schools, pupils, parents cart away prizes at competition     Forty-five students, drawn from 15 schools within the Federal Capital Territory (FCT), recently battled at a national spelling bee contest to win amazing prizes that made their teachers, schools and parents proud. REGINA OTOKPA takes us through the thrills and… May 25, 2021 In "Education" The outbreak of the COVID- 19 pandemic across the world put most activities on hold and impacted negatively on people in all spheres of life. With the National Sports Festival just few days away in March, the Nigerian government announced the first lockdown and everything was put on hold but… August 8, 2020 In "Sports" …as Venus, Clijsters fall in first round Six time champion Serena Williams made a sparkling start at the 2020 U.S. Open Tennis championship by surpassing Chris Evert's record of winning most matches at the Grand Slam event. The 38-year-old mother of one made history at Flushing Meadows Tuesday when she… September 3, 2020 In "Sports"