President Muhammadu Buhari yesterday said the late former Deputy Governor of Kaduna State, Barnabas Yusuf Bala (aka Bantex), would be remembered for his patriotism to the nation as well as his  forthrightness in politics.  In similarly vein, the Arewa Consultative Forum (ACF) also described Bala as a gentleman and stabilising factor for the administration of Governor Nasir El-Rufai in his first term. Bala, a former governor and top notch of the ruling All progressive Congress (APC) died in Kaduna yesterday at the age of 64.  The  deceased served as Deputy to Governor Nasir El’rufai during his first tenure (2015-2019). In a statement issued by his spokesman, Malam Garba Shehu, the President extended his deepest condolences to Bala’s family, friends, associates and many followers, who benefited immensely from his stewardship as a public servant and political office holder. He expressed the believe that the late Architect, a true gentleman and consummate professional, would be fondly remembered for his many years of distinguished service in his home State. The President also affirmed that the former Deputy Governor, who served as chairman of Kaura Local Government Area and member representing Kaura Federal Constituency in the House of Representatives, was a potent voice on peace, stability and progress at the state and national level.  The President prayed God to grant the departed eternal rest and comfort those who mourn the irreparable loss  Benue State Governor Samuel Ortom on Saturday described his Kaduna State counterpart, Nasir El-Rufai as a "sycophant, ethnic champion and religious bigot" who hates anyone who does not share the same faith with him. Ortom added that the Kaduna governor was one of the “very few persons” who misled… May 8, 2021 In "Top Stories" President Muhammadu Buhari has expressed shock and grief over the death of the Emir of Zazzau, Alhaji Shehu Idris.   According to a statement made available to newsmen yesterday by his spokesman, Malam Garba Shehu, the President in a condolence message to Governor Nasir El-Rufai, the government and people of… September 21, 2020 In "News" When Bauchi State is mentioned in any contemporary discussion, what immediately takes centrestage is the recent defection of Hon. Yakubu Dogara, former Speaker of the House of Representatives, from the Peoples Democracy Party (PDP) to the All Progressives Congress (APC).   While the broader implication of Dogara’s exit could take… August 9, 2020 In "News"