The new Director of Radio Biafra, Simon Ekpa has said that it will be hard for anyone to fill the vacuum created by the absence of leader of the Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB), Mazi Nnamdi Kanu.  Ekpa was on Friday announced as the new Director of the Pro-Biafra radio following the re-arrest of Kanu who was both the leader of IPOB and Director of Radio Biafra.  The new director who is a lawyer, a human rights activist, a legal researcher and an advisor is also a crown Prince of the Ancient Ngbo Kingdom in Ohaukwu Local Government Area of Ebonyi State.  Ekpa who has been living in Finland for a long time is also a Finnish citizen and was recently elected Deputy Councilor in his municipality in Finland.  Accepting his recent nomination which was said to be at the order of the detained IPOB leader, Ekpa called for cooperation from all members of the group, stressing that he alone cannot fill in the vacuum left. He said: “Today will mark another beginning in the struggle as our leader has directed that I start broadcasting from Radio Biafra.  To whom much is given much is expected. “This is a call to service. This is a call to double whatever effort we may have put in the past. This is a call to put everything in line. “I’m not perfect, but with your support, we’ll pass the right message that’ll pierce the heart of everyone including all the people in Southern Nigeria.  “I’m not perfect, I don’t know it all, but with you on my side, I’ll use Radio Biafra to pass a message that’ll pierce the heart of every politician in Southern Nigeria.  “I’m not perfect, but with your prayers, I’ll use Radio Biafra to preach to those who never wanted to listen to the voice of Biafrans crying for freedom. “I may not be perfect, but with your prayers, we’ll use Radio Biafra to change the wrong narratives of yesterday.  “The little time our leader will spend with them there, he’ll come out and be proud of what we all must have achieved. “I ask Elohim to empower me with the wisdom of 1000 men to enable me to break every chain on the way.  “God of Biafrans will bestow the spirit of unity on us. I know that there’ll be opposition; I know what’s on the way.”   With the current discordant tunes from the leadership of the Independent Peoples of Biafra, (IPOB), OKEY MADUFORO, writes that the group may have strayed from its objectives   At the peak of killings by some Islamic fundamentalist in Kano State several years ago, Dim Chukwuemeka Odumegwu Ojukwu, proponent of the… December 6, 2020 In "Politics" “I love Nnamdi Kanu’s courage, I love his dynamism but I have issues with his method” – Nnia Nwodo This question has been on the lips of many Ndigbo and even other Nigerians for long since the leader of Indigenous Peoples of Biafra (IPOB), Nnamdi Kanu went awry after regaining… July 9, 2020 In "Back Page Columnist" The Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB) has said that its leader, Nnamdi Kanu was abducted by the Nigerian government and not arrested and extradited as reported in many news bulletins. This was contained in a press statement signed by the spokesman of the group, Comrade Emma Powerful who promised to… July 1, 2021 In "News"