Hon. Dumnamene Robinson Dekor represents Khana/ Gokana Federal Constituency of Rivers State and is the Chairman of the House of Representatives Committee on Host Communities. In this interview, he speaks on the Petroleum Industry Bill (PIB), host communities, Niger Delta Avengers, Ogoni clean-up and other residual issues. PHILIP NYAM met with him  What exactly does your committee Host Communities do? What is its mandate?  This committee has been set up to look at the very long standing neglect, abandonment and huge cries of the oil producing communities in the Niger Delta in particularly, and this House took that decision to set up this committee. It’s a standing committee of the House as provided for in the rule book.  This is to make sure that the rights and the welfare of the host communities, all issues of agreements, MoUs, between host communities, governments both at the state and national level, organisations, local and international have entered into. We also have the mandate of the House to ensure that in line with global best practices, we have the 13 per cent derivation.  I’m sure you are aware that very recently the Bayelsa State government won a landmark case on this issue of derivation.  I think the last time we invited a lot of government agencies to that effect and because if you see what happens in Niger Delta, you will agree with me that some of the agencies put in place are not also doing very well.  Even at that, we have discovered that the derivation principles may not have been applied and to that extent, we are taking a look at it because if you say 13 per cent, 13 per cent of what? Are there taxes? Are there deductions? Who benefits from them? Things like that.  We also oversight the clean up of hydrocarbon pollution programme in Ogoniland and we have also commenced interactions with virtually all oil companies in the country. We’ve interacted with most of them.  We do these interactions because we want to be able to understand what their problem is with their communities in terms of vandalism. We need to know what their losses are, just like we need to know also what they are able to give back to the communities and how they’ve done that.  You will agree with me that in some cases, some of these companies are also reaching out to the communities, but they may not be reaching out through the appropriate channels and that aggravates the issue on the ground. Some people have turned themselves into warlords and want to speak for communities and in an attempt to speak for communities, the communities are short changed. It is also the deliberate policy of most of the companies   The level of levity with which they treat most of these communities is being brought to our hearings. When you see companies that decide not to provide the necessary data that we require of them because they have things to hide. They know the committee won’t take that likely. How has the committee been handling this?  The committee is not out to witch-hunt anybody. What we are trying to do is to make sure there is a common ground where the investor is happy to invest and the host communities are also happy that they are living in an area that was not by their choice but by the grace of God. We will visit all the Niger Delta states, in some cases, senatorial districts to hold town hall meetings. We are commencing our engagement with HYPREP.  We are going to look at what they are doing; what they ought to do and how far they have gone and their impact on the people. If the projects succeed, it means that it will do well in other parts of the country where they may have that level of contamination. How can the PIB impact on this?  The PIB, by the grace of God, which has just been passed by the House, Mr. President will assent to it. That way, the challenges of host communities will reduce, challenges of companies too will reduce and government earnings from oil will also increase. I also want to use this opportunity to call on Nigerians to be patient with the parliament.  You know, in the process of lawmaking, a whole lot of things are put into consideration. That way, the challenges of those communities would be reduced; the challenges of the companies themselves would also be reduced. And government’s earnings from oil would also increase which means that there will be more money at the disposal of government for the development in the country.  There are very many petitions against OICs by the host communities. What is the House or your committee doing about it?  Principally, prior to this time, we saw all kinds of petitions. Today, I am aware that the gate of AGIP in Port Harcourt was blocked for certain demands by those in the community. You also see all kinds of such activities all over the Niger Delta. We have received several petitions. We are studying them.  Our consultants are looking at them with the aim of ensuring that we bring the parties together and resolve the issues in such a way and manner that the country itself and those who live within that part of the country would have a better life.  One thing this committee wants to assure Nigerians and assure this House is that we would do our job in a way that it would bring glory to Nigerians. For me, as the chairman of this committee, I must make it clear that I am an Ogoni man from Rivers State and I am sure you are aware that the Ogonis have been raped severally.  The Ogonis are in fact, the symbol of neglect, symbol of whatever you want to talk about in the industry and so I don’t think we would want that to happen to any other part of the country.  You are aware of the frontier issues. They are prospecting for oil in other parts of the country and we are hoping and praying that we can get commercial quantities of oil in all those areas. What has happened to the Ogonis and other people in Niger Delta, we would not wish it to happen to any other people and that is why the passage of the PIB becomes very necessary. To that extent, I think partnering with the media, we would be able to achieve a whole lot.  Some stakeholders have complained severally that the oil companies are not cooperating with their host communities, and they seem to have no regard even for the government. What’s your take on this?  Let me make it very clear, a lot of the companies are trying to be elusive. When invitations are extended to them, some of them are trying to avoid appearance. We would stop at nothing. We would use every legislative instrument at our disposal to compel any such company and erring companies in fact to appear before Nigerians because the House is the House of Nigerians and they are accountable to the people of Nigeria.  So, I use this opportunity to call on them to make hay while the sun is shining so that before we get to the next stage, because we are going to do some investigations also, which will come as a result of the interactions we have already had with some of them.  You see, some companies would tell you that they have done CSR for maybe about 10 communities and they would tell you it is N60 million. You know it is unfair. It is quite unfair. Nobody is saying it must be this or that, but let us do whatever we are doing, you know, with some degree of fairness.  Recently, there have been threats by the Niger Delta Avengers to blow out oil installations in the region. Again, the issue of percentage due to Host Communities has been mired by controversies. What is your committee doing about it?  I think the Niger Delta Avengers gave an ultimatum and I would urge them by way of an appeal that the peace we are enjoying in the Niger Delta today should be improved upon.  Whatever the grievances that exist should be brought for discussion because part of what we are doing is to make sure that these issues do not come up and by the grace of God, we would do everything humanly possible to make sure that there is a resolution. You know that sometimes as somebody who comes from the Niger Delta, you may be challenged because I understand those threats were given a day or two after some leaders were with Mr. President.  We would find out exactly what it is and I can tell you that because the committee has members from virtually all the producing states, in fact all the producing states, and in most cases communities, we would leverage on that and make sure that it does not happen.  But I call on them to let us uphold the peace that we have for now, and let all issues be laid on the table so that they can be resolved. I believe that with this committee and with the passage of the PIB, some of those problems would be resolved.  Rivers State Governor, Nyesom Wike, has called on the National Assembly to approve not less than 10 per cent fund allocation to host communities in the Petroleum Industry Bill(PIB) that is still before it, stressing that the fund should be used to develop the host communities. Speaking yesterday when the… March 5, 2021 In "News" Governors of the South-South States demanded an upward review of the provision of 2.5 per cent as Host Community Trust Fund in the Petroleum Industry Bill (PIB) to 10 per cent in the best interest of oil communities and the nation. The governors have also advised President Mohammadu Buhari that… March 14, 2021 In "Politics" The public hearing organised by the House of Representatives on the Petroleum Industry Bill (PIB) was, yesterday, disrupted following a disagreement among host communities and some civil society organisations (CSOs) resulting in a free-for-all . This is just as the host communities and some of the CSOs decried the process… January 29, 2021 In "News"