Enugu golfer hits 66 net score to win Prince Mamah one-day tournament
A member of the Enugu Golf Club Dr. Humphrey Obiefule has emerged the overall winner of a one-day golf tournament sponsored by Enugu Commissioner Prince Emeka Mamah.
The tournament which held at the Enugu Golf Course was played over over 18-holes.
Captain of the Enugu Golf Club Dr. Kene Madu said the tournament was sponsored by Prince Emeka Mamah for golfers in the South East and South+South.
“We had players from Abakaliki, Port Harcourt and a few other places.’
He disclosed that Dr. Obiefule returned a net score of 66 to win the category for men and the overall star price while Mrs Ezinne Odionyemma won the ladies category.
“We also had veteran players who are above 60; that category was won by Chief Onyechi Ofala Okafor.”
He said the tournament which coincides with the first mug after his election was sponsored by prince Mamah part of efforts together to foster.
Mamah who is also Enugu State Commissioner for Rural Development said he decided to use the competition to mark his 50th birthday and the birthday of his wife.
“This is the first competition of our Captain after our election. It is called the first mug; first competition; it’s happening with the celebration of my birthday and that of my wife.  Rotimi Obajimi, a former athletics coach, stole the show at the maiden edition of the Polaris Bank-sponsored Unity Cup Golf Championship. To emerge winner, Obajimi grossed 81, for 69-net score to lift the tournament's coveted trophy. The event, which attracted golfers from across the country, also served as the… March 29, 2021 In "Sports" Dr. Ogunbiyi Ogunbanjo, on Saturday, outperformed 98 other golfers to emerge winner of the star prize at the inaugural DStv Premium Golf Day, which held at the Ikeja Golf Club in Lagos.   Ogunbanjo, a member of the Ikeja Golf Club, emerged winner with a net score of 65 to… November 17, 2020 In "Sports" The highbrow Golf Section of Ikoyi Club 1938 is agog with festivities as over 500-golfers drawn from across the country have stormed the club for the maiden edition of the Polaris Bank-sponsored Unity Cup Golf Championship. The competition, which also serves as inaugural tournament for the Dr. Meckson Innocent Okoro-led… March 26, 2021 In "Sports"