Lagos State Governor, Mr. Babajide Sanwo-Olu, yesterday rendered account of stewardship of his administration in the last two years, saying his administration had delivered on the THEMES developmental agenda as promised the electorate. He said the totality of his administration’s efforts were geared towards ensuring a safe and secure society, where youth employment is guaranteed. Speaking at the “2021 State of the State Address” held at the Lagos House, Ikeja, which was attended by his deputy, Dr. Obafemi Hamzat, members of his cabinet, traditional rulers, political gladiators, captains of industries and media executives, Sanwo- Olu said the ‘Greater Lagos’ collectively envisioned by Lagosians is closer now than ever before. He said: “We are exceedingly happy with the progress we have made in the last two years. Our accomplishments have placed us at a vantage position from where we can now catch a Glimpse of the Greater Lagos we envisioned together. “As a government, we have consistently matched our word with action and worked tirelessly to transform into reality our shared aspiration of making Lagos one of the most functional and habitable cities in the world. We can do it; we will do it. We have laid a very solid foundation for the transformation of our State through strategic interventions and meaningful executions beyond this period.” The governor said his administration is working tirelessly to deliver the Fourth Mainland Bridge, Imota Rice mill, Integrated Mass Transit System, which includes the blue and red line rail projects, water transportation, Bus Reform Initiative (BRI) as well as other infrastructure to Lagosians within next two years. He added that completing the projects within the next 24 months would bring absolute transformation to the livelihoods and the economy of our dear state, noting that his administration spent the last 729 days laying the foundation for all these to happen seamlessly. Speaking on his government’s plan for the state, Sanwo-Olu said Lagosians should expect to see the first passenger movement on the rail transportation before the end of his administration, adding that the incumbent government will build and complete intermodal bus terminals at Ajah, Abule Egba, Iju, Ojota and Anthony Village before the end of his tenure. He said: “As a government, we have undertaken several innovative means of ensuring that citizens’ travel experiences are palatable. We, therefore, believe that the construction of the 37km 4th Mainland Bridge will significantly change the face of transportation and movement in Lagos State.”  TEMITOPE OGUNBANKE writes on the one-year anniversary of the Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu-led administration in Lagos State On May 29, 2019, there were exchanges of batons as well as continuity in some states as 29 governors took oath of office. Among the new governors who took oath of office last year… June 19, 2020 In "Politics" TEMITOPE OGUNBANKE writes on achievements of Lagos State governor, Mr. Babajide Sanwo-Olu, who clocked 55 yesterday Lagos State governor, Mr. Babajide Sanwo-Olu clocked 55 yesterday. At 55, Sanwo-Olu, not only stands tall among his contemporaries, but remains a model to his generation. Born on June 25, 1965 in Lagos State,… June 26, 2020 In "Politics" There was excitement in the air yesterday at the Adeniji-Adele area of Lagos as Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu flagged off the new Massey Children Hospital, which is expected to be the biggest in Africa. With the hospital, the challengesof inadequatespaceatthe old Massey Children’s Hospital would be addressed as a new edificewouldcaterforthehealth… April 29, 2021 In "News"