 Onyekachi Eze, Abuja The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) said the invasion of Presidential Villa, the nation’s seat of power, by suspected armed robbers was an indication that President Muhammadu Buhari lacked the capacity to secure Nigeria
PDP in a statement by its National Publicity Secretary, Kola Ologbondiyan, said the development further points to the collapse of security command structure under President Buhari’s watch.
The party stated that the reported assault on the residence of the Chief of Staff to the President, Prof. Ibrahim Gambari, within the precinct of the villa, “is too close to home and has heightened apprehensions over the capacity of the Buhari presidency to secure the nation.”
It noted that all over the world, the seat of power is a national sovereignty, a fortress that ought to have impregnable security.
PDP regretted the security breach, and said it sent a danger signal to the overall security of the country.
“It is imperative to state that such security infraction, that gave way for outlaws to invade the Presidential Villa in sequence, in spite of its perceptibly secured ambience, can only happen under an absentee president, who have not demonstrated the required capacity expected of his office,” the party said.  Ruling party: Combating  terrorism requires int’l alliance   The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) said the All Progressives Congress (APC) should take responsibility for the failures of President Muhammadu Buhari in the area of security.   PDP, in a statement by its National Publicity Secretary, Kola Ologbondiyan, urged President Buhari to… November 3, 2020 In "News" Nigeria’s opposition party, the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has said the statement credited to the Presidency that the slain Borno farmers did not obtain military clearance before going to their farm, amount to insensitivity and a spat on the grave of the slain farmers.   This is even as the… December 1, 2020 In "News" …alleges group commissioned one million T-Shirts for campaign   The Presidency, yesterday, taunted the main opposition Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) and other critics of the government over their reactions to the abduction and subsequent rescue of 344 boys from the Government Science Secondary School, Kankara, Katsina State.     It… December 21, 2020 In "News"