• Victory in their final two games will give Atlético title
• Juventus keep top-four hopes alive with win at Sassuolo Atlético Madrid homed in on the La Liga title with a 2-1 win against Real Sociedad at the Wanda Metropolitano on Wednesday to move four points clear at the top. Diego Simeone’s side made an aggressive start and after spurning a few early chances they deservedly went ahead with a low finish from Yannick Carrasco in the 16th minute, doubling their lead in the 28th through the Argentinian forward Ángel Correa.
Sociedad had their moments but were denied by six saves from Atletico’s talismanic goalkeeper Jan Oblak, while the forward Portu hit the post late on.
They finally got a goal when the defender Igor Zubeldia bundled the ball into the net in the 83rd minute, ensuring a nerve-shredding finish for the leaders.
Atlético were hemmed into their own half for most of the remaining minutes but clung on for the victory. They know they will lift their first La Liga crown since 2014 if they beat Osasuna and Real Valladolid in their final two fixtures.
Atlético lead the standings on 80 points, four clear of second-placed Barcelona and five ahead of third-placed Real Madrid, who visit Granada on Thursday.
In Serie A, Cristiano Ronaldo’s 100th goal for Juventus in all competitions helped keep alive his side’s hopes of a top-four finish after a 3-1 win at Sassuolo.
The result was not easy to come by for Juve, with Gianluigi Buffon saving an early penalty, but goals from Adrien Rabiot, Ronaldo and Paulo Dybala meant they stayed fifth, two points off the Champions League qualification places.
The win helped Juve to ensure they kept pace with their top-four rivals Atalanta, Milan and Napoli, who all won in the latest round of matches, with two games to play. With the pressure mounting on coach Andrea Pirlo after a 3-0 defeat against Milan at the weekend, it was imperative they did not drop more points.
Rabiot told DAZN: “It was important to win tonight, we were so poor in the match with Milan. We wanted to do more, we suffered but the attitude was the right one. We are all angry, Juve must do better. We must try to win the last two games and see what happens.”
Elsewhere on a busy night in Serie A, Milan thrashed Torino 7-0 to stay third and Atalanta cruised to a 2-0 win over Benevento, who remain deep in the relegation mire, to remain second. Spezia earned a vital point in a 2-2 draw at Sampdoria to move four points clear of Benevento in 18th, while Cagliari’s fine end-of-season form continued as they held Fiorentina to a 0-0 stalemate to move five points clear of the drop zone.
Lazio left it very late to get the better of relegated Parma, with Ciro Immobile’s 95th-minute winner keeping them within touching distance of the top four on 67 points. Simone Inzaghi’s side, however, have a game in hand on the rest.
Internazionale stretched their unbeaten Serie A run to 20 games as the champions eased to a 3-1 victory against Roma to preserve their 13-point lead at the top with two games to play. The result moves Inter to 88 points – already their biggest haul since 2007 – while Roma, who will be coached by José Mourinho next season, are now guaranteed to finish no higher than seventh.
Meanwhile the French Cup holders Paris Saint-Germain reached the final after a nailbiting 6-5 penalty shootout win at Montpellier as the match ended 2-2 in regular time after the home side twice came from behind.
Junior Sambia missed Montpellier’s final penalty before Moise Kean drilled in his spot-kick to send PSG through to the May 19 showdown against either Monaco or fourth-tier Rumilly Vallières, who meet in the other semi-final on Thursday.
Kylian Mbappé returned from a leg injury with an electrifying performance as he fired PSG ahead in the 10th minute and restored their lead in the 50th after Gaëtan Laborde levelled on the stroke of half-time.
PSG missed a string of chances and were skating on thin ice after Andy Delort struck in the 83rd minute to force the shootout, but PSG’s penalty-takers all kept their nerve, scoring six penalties out of six.
*Courtesy: Reuters  Karim Benzema scored for a sixth consecutive game as his double helped Real Madrid to a 3-1 win over Celta Vigo in La Liga yesterday. The France striker's goals were both assisted by Germany midfielder Toni Kroos as Madrid moved above rivals Barcelona into second in the table. Celta pulled… March 20, 2021 In "Sports" Karim Benzema scored for a sixth consecutive game as his double helped Real Madrid to a 3-1 win over Celta Vigo in La Liga yesterday. The France striker's goals were both assisted by Germany midfielder Toni Kroos as Madrid moved above rivals Barcelona into second in the table.   Celta… March 21, 2021 In "Sports" ...as Atletico go clear at top of La Liga Lionel Messi scored his 644th goal for Barcelona during his side's victory over Real Valladolid to break Pele's record of the most goals for one club. Argentina forward Messi, 33, scored Barca's third when he collected Pedri's backheel, took a touch… December 23, 2020 In "Sports"