President Muhammadu Buhari has approved new security measures specifically for the South-East and South-South geo-political zones of the country. This came as he promised to tackle the challenges of drug abuse, unemployment and other enablers of crime in the country. Briefing newsmen after the third Security Council meeting held within 11 days and chaired by the President at the Presidential Villa yesterday, the Acting Inspector-General of Police (IGP), Usman Baba, who made the disclosure, added that the Council resolved not to make its tactics public for effective results. “We have some measures which we have outlined and have been approved by the Council and we’ll see how we can change the narrative within the quickest possible means to restore law and order and restore peace in that (South-east, Southsouth) area,” he said. The National Security Adviser to the President (NSA), Maj-Gen. Babagana Monguno (rtd.), in his comments disclosed that the Council resolved to address the enablers of crime with a view to mitigating the growing threats to society. He said: “These enablers are discussed in detail and Mr. President has already given direction on how to deal with them. Specifically, issues of drug abuse as propellants for crime; how to make the criminal justice system much more effective, as well as looking at issues of unemployment and lack of effective crime reporting system.” The Chief of Defence Staff (CDS), Gen. Lucky Irabor, in his comments, said the Council had approved his request for manpower development, training and equipment for the Army. He gave the assurance that this development would have great impacts in the fight against insecurity across the country.   President Muhammadu Buhari has approved new security measures specifically for the South East and South South geo-political zones of the country. This is even as a decision has been taken not to publicised measures to be deployed to tackle insecurity in the country henceforth for a more effective result. The… May 11, 2021 In "News" There is no doubt that the security situation under President Muhammadu Buhari has reached an alarming state. From the North East to the North West, North Central to the South West, South East and South South, the country has continued to bleed as a result of this scourge.   Apart… May 3, 2021 In "Editorial" …bans mining activities in Zamfara, declares state no-fly zone Following consistent banditry and heightened general insecurity in Zamfara, President Muhammadu Buhari has ordered the ban on mining activities in the state. He equally disclosed that the President has ordered the nation’s security chiefs to recover all areas being occupied by… March 3, 2021 In "News"