 Muhammad Kabir, Kano The controversy surrounding the appointment of the former Emir of Kano, Muhammadu Sanusi II, as the Grand Khalifa of the Tijjaniyya Islamic Movement in Nigeria, as finally been laid to rest.
Sanusi has now been officially appointed the leader of the movement in Nigeria by the Supreme Global Leader of the Sect, Sheik Mahi Niyyas in Senegal after inviting the former Emir the West African country.
Controversy first surrounded his appointment on March 13, 2021 following a brief ceremony to that effect in Sokoto during the Tijjaniyya movement’s National Maulud.
However, in order to formally consummate the appointment, the Tijaniya leaders invited the former Emir to Kaolack in Senegal for the closing ceremony of Ramadan Tafsir on Sunday, where they officially approved his appointment.
Announcing the decision during the event, Sheikh Mahi tasked the former Emir to rise to the occasion and be a good ambassador of the Sect in Nigeria.
The position was previously held by the late Emir of Kano Sanusi (Muhammadu Sanusi’s late grandfather) and lately held by the late philanthropist, Khalifa Isyaku Rabiu.  MUHAMMAD KABIR KANO Special Adviser to Kano State Governor, Umar Abdullahi Ganduje on Chieftaincy Affairs, Tijjani Mailafiya Sanka, yesterday confirmed that the state government has received a letter from the State Emirate Council seeking for the reappointment of Alhaji Aminu Babba DanAgundi, as the new Sarkin Dawaki Babba of Kano.… July 14, 2020 In "News" *Say: 'Its payback time' Muhammad Kabir, Kano The Council of Ullammas and some Jumma'at Mosque Immams in Kano have endorsed the candidature of the National Leader of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Bola Tinubu for the 2023 presidential election. The Immams and the Ullammas believe that it is time for… December 5, 2020 In "Politics" President Muhammadu Buhari has prayed that never again will there be an outbreak of civil war in Nigeria. The President, who recalled that in the 30 months of the civil war in the country (July 6, 1967-January 13, 1970), Nigerians on both sides lost many lives this is even as… March 27, 2021 In "News"