Police in Oyo State yesterday intercepted a suspected gunrunner and recovered an AK47 rifle at an Ibadan community bordering Ogun State. The state Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO), DSP Adewale Osifeso, disclosed this in a statement.  He said: “The operatives attached to the command’s Monitoring Unit, while on aggressive stop-and-search duty at Bakari, a border village between Oyo and Ogun states, about 1630hrs (4.30pm), recorded yet another breakthrough in the fight against crime and criminality.  “The suspect spotted the tactical officers while performing their routine intelligencedriven checks from afar before immediately turning his Bajaj motorcycle to flee.  “In swift response, the tactical operatives engaged in hot pursuit after the fleeing suspect, into the pathways leading into a nearby forest, an action that led to a sack falling off the back of his Bajaj motorcycle.  A cursory look into the content of the sack revealed it was an AK47 rifle with breech number 353913.  “Comprehensive investigations are ongoing not only to apprehend the suspect, but as well, crack down on his criminal network and supply chain.”  Osifeso said the Commissioner of Police, Ngozi Onadeko, enjoined the good people of the state to partner with the police in terms of sharing credible and timely information valuable in curbing criminality and birthing a peaceful Oyo State.  Oyo State Police Command on Sunday intercepted a suspected gun runner and recovered an AK-47 rifle at a community bordering Ogun State in Ibadan, the state capital.   According to a statement signed by the Command’s PRO, Adewale Osifeso (DSP) and made available to New Telegraph Monday: “The operatives attached… May 3, 2021 In "News" Police kill two, recover firearms Bandits have killed a police inspector and abducted three students during an attack on a community in Kaduna State. The attack occurred about 11pm on Wednesday at Ungwa Waziri, Karji in Chikun Local Government Area. The gunmen killed the police inspector before abducting three others… March 19, 2021 In "Metro & Crime" A suspected gang leader, Gbenga Yinka alias Infinity (36), has said that he refused to carry out robbery operations in Port Harcourt, Rivers State because of his popularity in the state. Infinity was arrested along with four suspected members of his gang - Prince Chinedu, John Chidiebere, Shawama Opkara and… November 13, 2020 In "Metro & Crime"