Borno State Governor, Babagana Umar Zulum has been conferred fellow of the Nigerian Institution Of Agricultural Engineers (NIAE) in the 2021 prestigious fellowship awards.  Zulum, a Professor of Irrigation Engineering, has since 2018 been a fellow  of the Nigerian Society of Engineers. He holds a Barchelor’s and masters degrees in Agricultural Engineering with Phd in soil and water engineering.  The NIAE held its inauguration of national executive committee and fellowship conferment at Nigerian Society of Engineers Headquarters in Central Area, on Friday in Abuja, with Zulum in attendance.  Four others: Engr. Dr. GA Badamus, Engr. Dr. Taiwo I. Oyedemi, Engr. Professor Babagana Mohammed and Engr. Dr Jones Akinbolade also received the agricultural engineers fellowship award.  President of the Nigerian Society of Engineers, Dr. Babagana Mohammed who presided over the investiture, recognized Zulum’s pursuit of excellence in the engineering profession.  Guest speaker at the event, Engr. Professor Mohammed Haruna spoke on “Pathway to Economic Transformation in Nigeria, NASENI’s perspective”.   The Nigerian Society of Engineers (NSE) has declared that the National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC) was the backbone to the visible development of country and the engineering profession. President of the NSE, Engr. Babagana Mohammed, who declared this during the presentation of award of fellowship on some management staff of the… November 19, 2020 In "News" Two directors of the Nigerian Communications Commission (NCC), Bako Wakil and Oluwatoyin Asaju, have been conferred with the Fellowship of the Nigerian Institute of Electrical and Electronic Engineers (FNIEEE). Wakil is the Director, Technical Standards and Network Integrity, while Asaju is the current Director, Spectrum Administration Department at the Commission.… April 8, 2021 In "Business" Paul Ogbuokiri   On the heels of his reappointment by President Muhammadu Buhari on Wednesday for a second term in office, the Managing Director of Nigerian Railways Corporation (NRC), Engr. Freeborn Edetanlen Okhiria has fully commenced work at the NCR headquarters in Ebute-Metta, Lagos State. Engr. Okhiria’s reappointment was contained… October 11, 2020 In "Business"