 At least six persons have been reportedly killed and scores injured following attacks on Utsua Daa and Baafada villages around Gazabu and Takalafia communities in Bali Local Government Area of Taraba State.
A relative of one of the persons killed in the attacks, Mr. Tyokua Ayoo said via the phone that gunmen suspected to be herdsmen attacked the communities on Thursday afternoon.
Ayoo said many people were on the farm when the attack happened and they fled to Bali town without returning to their homes for fear of being killed.
“The attack on Utsua Daa Village in Takalafia Ward happened around 10am and two persons were killed, while that of Baafada in Gazabu and Mambilla Road happened around 2pm claiming the lives of four persons.
“One person is missing and several people were injured and houses set ablaze.
“Some of those injured are receiving treatment at Santa Maria Catholic hospital in Bali,” he said.
When contacted, Taraba State Police Command’s Spokesman, ASP. David Misal said he was yet to receive a report about the attack.  *70-year-old man, son, three children among those killed   *Ortom warns people against being hostile to security agents   It was a tragic weekend for the Mbamondo community of Makurdi Modern Market Council Ward as suspected armed Fulani militants invaded the area, killed and butchered a family of five. The… April 18, 2021 In "Metro & Crime" Twelve persons have been killed with scores injured and many displaced in fresh attacks by suspected Fulani herdsmen in Tse Abe, Tse-Ugbadu and Goh in Gwer West Local Government Area of Benue State and Wereng Village in Riyom Local Government Council of Plateau State during the week. At least six… April 17, 2021 In "News" *As army kills two herdsmen, recover assorted weapons, ammunition   Cephas Iorhemen, Makurdi   Benue State Governor Samuel Ortom Saturday called on President Muhammadu Buhari to declare armed Fulani herdsmen killing innocent people in communities of the state as terrorists, even as the Nigerian Army neutralised two suspected herdsmen who… July 11, 2020 In "Metro & Crime"