Former African footballer of the Year, Emmanuel Amuneke, has warned sensational Super Eagles striker Paul Onuachu to consider a club that can guarantee his development if he must leave his current side Genk when the summer transfer window opens.
Onuachu has been one of the most sought-after strikers in Europe after hitting 30 goals in the Belgian league this season.
Amunike said Onuachu has drawn the attention of bigger clubs to himself with the goals he has scored this season, insisting the staggering statistic has shown that he can fit in at a much bigger club.
However, he warned that the most important thing is not for the striker to jump at the opportunity of playing at a big club that will not support his growth.
“Paul has enjoyed a good season this year despite all the difficulties with the pandemic, he was able to distinguish himself; the important thing here I think its a very big step for him because he has drawn a lot of attention to big clubs by showing that he can play in big teams.
“The most important thing is not about playing in big teams but where he can have the same continuity of playing and have the opportunity to continue to develop and grow,” he said.  In the past two football seasons, the best Nigerian scorer is Paul Onuachu of Belgian team, KRC Genk. He has registered 22 goals and two assists for his team in the 2020/2021 football season. He has been consistent and on the verge of surpassing his goals tally for last season.… February 11, 2021 In "Editorial" Goal scoring is a key feature of football. A coach sets up his team to score as many goals as possible within the 90 minutes duration of a football game. All tactics and strategies are aimed at creating chances to score goals. Other two departments of football - midfield and… February 6, 2021 In "Sports" Belgian club KRC Genk have revealed the price tag of their prized striker Paul Onuachu with the outfit announcing that the forward can go for 15 million Euros. The striker has been one of the hottest prospects in Europe and French Ligue 1 club Lyon already among the front runners… February 12, 2021 In "Sports"