Ex-international, Daniel Amokachi, has blamed Enyimba’s heavy defeat in the quarterfinal of the CAF Confederation Cup against Pyramids FC of Egypt on lack of professionalism.
The Special Adviser to the president on football said this during his programme, aired on Brila FM on Monday.
The first leg game ended 4-1 in favour of Pyramids despite Enyimba taking the lead as early as the first minute of the game.
“When you look at it and when it comes to professionalism, they are (North Africa) far better than the way we were if you going to compare,” he said.
“They know that football is all about business and everything about them is business, and that is why they are always having an edge over us.
“I wouldn’t say Enyimba is out of the competition, but they will need to score three goals to get any opportunity of progressing.
“There was no cohesion within the team, moving forward, they should have a strategy, they have to question themselves and believe they can make it, it all about professionalism, if we want to get there, we have to do the right thing.”  Afelokhai: No hiding place for People’s Elephant in PH Omaka: We’ll win again to progress   It has been war of words after Sunday’s first leg of the final playoff of the CAF Confederation Cup game between two-time CAF Champions League winners, Enyimba and another top team in the Nigeria… February 16, 2021 In "Sports" A former Super Eagles player and coach, Daniel Amokachi, has advised the National team manager, Gernot Rohr, to allow striker Odion Ighalo to enjoy his retirement.   Amokachi argued that the Eagles with their convincing results do not need the former Watford star at the moment because all the young… May 4, 2021 In "Sports" Former Governor of Abia State and Senator representing Abia North in the Senate, Orji Uzor Kalu, while answering questions on a WhatsApp group, NSM, monitored by CHARLES OGUNDIYA, said insecurity and lack of investment are inhibiting the growth of football in Nigeria. Excerpts… Have you been following Enyimba of late… May 1, 2021 In "Sports"