As the June countdown for all party primaries for the coming November 6, 2021 Anambra State governorship election kicks off, and with the All Progressives Congress (APC), the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), the All Progressives Grand Alliance (APGA), the Labour Party(LP) and others parading more than 37 capable aspirants, a top favorite, Dr. George Nnadubem Moghalu has described the array of aspirants as cheering bundle of talents. So far, there are about nine aspirants on the platform of APC, PDP has 16, APGA seven, Labour Party two; Social Democratic Party two and, Young Peoples’ Party one.  Moghalu who is running on the platform of the APC saw “this large turnout of very credible and qualified aspirants jostling to lead the state as a clear indication that democracy is working in our state.  It goes also to show that Anambra has an abundance of human capital that can be leveraged upon to build a stable economy.  “I have to appreciate that the quality of aspirants we have today is quite commendable, which goes to show that democracy is strong and active in Anambra State. But integrity, character, courage, consistency and experience must be deeply considered before the choice of who will be the next governor is made. It’s very important…”, he said.  According to him, the large number of aspirants actually makes the contest very keen and interesting, because it gives one opportunity and reason to work very hard. “But, we must all bear in mind that it’s not a war. After all we are all sons and daughters of the state seeking to serve our people and the choice rests with the people, the electorate. “Yes anyone can be qualified because of his education, age, and some money to throw around. But when you don’t have the experience, you don’t have it! It is finished.  “And Anambra State at this critical stage in our history cannot afford to gamble with someone who is going to learn on the job. So we must avoid such risk”.  Moghalu who is described as cultured and very disciplined with vast political and administrative experience, is also the incumbent Chief Executive of the National Inland Waterways Authority (NIWA) admitted that he has come a long way with the people, hence would like to reciprocate their love with service founded on indelible legacy.  The Anambra State governorship election scheduled for November 6 has attracted a good number of aspirants from major political parties.   Although, the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) said 17 political parties will contest the election, investigations by New Telegraph showed that 38 aspirants have so far obtained the nomination… May 2, 2021 In "News" …APGA, APC yet to commence sale of forms The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has, so far, raised N213 million from sales of nomination and expression of interest forms for its June 26 governorship primary election for the November 6 gubernatorial poll in Anambra State. Thirteen aspirants, comprising 10 males and… March 31, 2021 In "News" The recent boast by the All Progressives Congress (APC), that it would have the keys to the Government House, Awka after the November 6 governorship election in Anambra State has been brushed aside by both the ruling All Progressives Grand Alliance (APGA) and the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) with both… January 31, 2021 In "News"