 Onyekachi Eze, Abuja The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) is to meet with its 37 Resident Electoral Commissioners (RECs) over the recurring fire incidents in its facilities in some parts of the country.
National Commissioner, Festus Okoye, who disclosed this in a statement on Friday, said the Commission was informed of yet another fire incident in its office in Udenu Local Government Area of Enugu State on Thursday.
“No casualties were reported. However, the office building was extensively damaged while electoral materials and office equipment were destroyed in spite of the best efforts of the Enugu State Fire Service to contain the inferno. The Commission appreciates the intervention of the Fire Service,” Okoye stated.
He noted that the incident was the third involving INEC’s Local Government offices in three states in less than two weeks.
“First, there was the destruction of the office in Essien Udim LGA of Akwa Ibom State on 2nd May 2021. This was followed by the fire at the Ohafia LGA office in Abia State on 9th May 2021,” he added.
Okoye described the attacks as worrisome and a setback to the commission’s ongoing activities and  preparations for upcoming electoral activities.
The meeting with the RECs, which holds on Wednesday next week, will be preceded by an emergency meeting of the Inter-Agency Consultative Committee on Election Security (ICCES) earlier scheduled, also next week to discuss this disturbing trend.  The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) has called for an emergency Inter-Agency Consultative Committee on Election Security (ICCES) to discuss the escalating attacks on its facilities across the country. In the past one month or so, the commission's facilities in Kano, Akwa Ibom and Abia states have suffered attacks, leading to loss… May 10, 2021 In "News" The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) has called for an emergency Inter-Agency Consultative Committee on Election Security (ICCES) to discuss the escalating attacks on its facilities across the country. In the past one month or so, the Commission's facilities in Kano, Akwa Ibom and Abia States have suffered attacks, leading… May 11, 2021 In "News" The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) office in Essien Udim Local Government Area of Akwa Ibom State, has been burnt by unknown hoodlums. The incident, confirmed in a statement on Sunday, by the INEC National Commissioner and Chairman Information and Voter Education Committee, Festus Okoye, occurred in the early hours of… May 2, 2021 In "Metro & Crime"