 Emmanuel Fredrick, also known as ‘Onecap’, has come out publicly to state the reason why he is out of school.
The singer, rapper and song writer, who hails from Uget in Cross River State, mentioned that he left school since he was not too bothered with the rigours of academics at the university when he was still an undergraduate.
He explained that he spent most of his time indoors writing songs and then one day, decided to venture into music full time. Whether his decision was a wise one or not, only time will reveal.
Although he further stated that he is still open to returning to school. Onecap began his music career officially in 2015 with two released songs to his credit – ‘Remember’ and ‘Monalisa’.
He believes being a university dropout will not in anyway detter the dynamics of his music. He believes he has the talent to reach the peak of his music career at any level.
Onecap has a forthcoming EP underway under his record label FOBALifestyle and he is confident the music world would appreciate his piece.  Timothy Onoja, whose stage name is Timikoda, is one of fast-rising Nigerian artiste asserting their presence in the industry.   An afrobeat enthusiast who draws inspiration from life, Timikoda is committed to reeling out new heartfelt songs from everyday’s events.   Given the array of established singers and music… September 19, 2020 In "Arts & Entertainments" Young Togolese gospel singer based in Nigeria Silver Praise, said that he is ready to drop his new gospel song titled ‘Holy is Your Name’.   Praise, who started singing since he was 12 year old came in to the music industry fully in 2011. He said that he became… October 25, 2020 In "Body & Soul" If you have ever encountered Eno Louis Enobakhare, whose stage name is Eno Louis, you would be enamoured not just by his craftsmanship as a musician and entertainer or his high business acumen as he has successfully embraced the fine mix of showmanship and business. But also by his handsome… July 3, 2020 In "Arts & Entertainments"