 The Flight Data Recorder (FDR) and the Cockpit Voice Recorder (CVR) from the crashed Beechcraft 350 aircraft that led to the deaths of the Chief of Army Staff, Lieutenant-General Ibrahim Attahiru and 10 other officers, have been recovered.
The Accident Investigation Bureau revealed this on Saturday.
In a statement signed by the AIB’s General Manager of Public Affairs, Tunji Oketunbi, the agency has been mandated by the Nigerian Air Force to “lead the Investigation into the crash” of the military aircraft on Friday.
“The Flight Data Recorder (FDR) and the Cockpit Voice Recorder (CVR) from the accidented Beechcraft 350 aircraft have been recovered and investigation has commenced,” the statement said.
“Investigators will download and analyse vital information contained in the recorders at the AIB-N’s world class Flight Safety Laboratory, in Abuja.
“The mandate given to AIB-N is based on the Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) signed between the two agencies on July 1, 2020 covering areas of mutual assistance.”
Military authorities have suggested that the flight crashed due to adverse weather conditions.
Earlier on Saturday, the late COAS and the other 10 officers were buried at the National Military Cemetery in Abuja.  *Preliminary report to be ready in four weeks Despite the fact that the ill-fated Quorum Aviation Limited helicopter was not fitted with a Flight Data Recorder (FDR), popularly known as the Black Box, the agency in charge of the investigation into the crash, the Accident Investigation Bureau (AIB) said it… September 1, 2020 In "Aviation" Despite the fact that the ill-fated Quorum Aviation Limited helicopter was not fitted with Flight Data Recorder (FDR), popularly known as the Black Box, the agency said investigation into the crash would not be hampered. AIB’s Commissioner, Mr. Akin Olateru, at a press briefing on the accident in Lagos yesterday,… September 2, 2020 In "News" Indonesian divers believe they are close to finding the cockpit voice recorder of a Sriwijaya Air jet that plunged into the sea shortly after takeoff with 62 people onboard. Divers retrieved the plane’s flight data recorder (FDR) from the seabed on Tuesday and officials said they had also found… January 13, 2021 In "News"