Armed men suspected to be members of the Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB), yesterday allegedly razed Mkpatak Police Station in Essien Udim Local Government Area of Akwa Ibom State, killing two police officers and 12 cows in the process. New Telegraph checks revealed that that there was another attack in a police station in Abak Local Government Area of the state.  It was gathered that the burning of the police  station at Mkpatak, the killing of the two officers and 12 cow were carried out in a coordinated attacks launched in three different locations in the LGA.  All the attacks are coming barely 24 hours after five police officers and a police officer’s wife were killed in an attack on Idoro Ikpe Police station in Ini Local Government Area on Saturday.  A source, who pleaded not to be mentioned told our correspondent in Uyo, that the officers were killed in Ukana Ikot Ntuen while the cows were killed at Afaha Ikot Ebak in the same LGA.  According to the  source, one of the officers was burnt inside his car while the other officer on motorcycle was shot by the hoodlums.  “Two police officers have been killed in Ukana Ikot Ntuen and. One  huswas burnt inside his vehicle, while the other one was shot by the bandits. As we speak the situation is still tensed. They killed 12 cows in Afaha Ikot Ebak village,” the source said.  Armed men, suspected to be members of the Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB), again on Sunday razed Mkpatak Police Station in Essien Udim Local Government Area of Akwa Ibom State and killed two police officers and 12 cows. Information at our disposal also indicated that there was another attack in… May 9, 2021 In "News" No fewer than 12 policemen were killed by gunmen in separate attacks in River and Akwa Ibom State over the weekend. The unknown gunmen killed seven police officers after launching three separate night attacks along the East/ West Road in Emohua Local Government Area (LGA, Rivers State.   During the… May 9, 2021 In "News" Recent attacks and killings of policemen and officers across the country are giving stakeholders the jitters, according to New Telegraph investigations These are certainly not the best of times for personnel of the Nigerian Police as many of them continued to come under violent attacks in different parts of the… March 4, 2021 In "Insight"