…as operatives rescue scores of hostages   The Kaduna State Government has disclosed that aerial patrols across the state has foiled mass kidnap of citizens in the state.  This is as government also condoles with the Emir of Birnin-Gwari for over the death of his driver, killed by bandits along the Birnin-Gwari- Kaduna road.  A statement issued by the state’s Commissioner, Ministry of Internal Security and Home Affairs, Mr. Samuel Aruwan, said: “Reports from locals around Ungwan Najaja, Kerawa, Igabi Local Government Area, indicate that aerial patrols of the Nigerian Air Force (NAF) foiled a mass kidnap by armed bandits.  “The bandits invaded the village and kidnap scores of women. Security agencies were noti    fied and fighter jets were swiftly mobilized to the location.  “The armed bandits were moving with the large number of women kidnapped from Ungwan Najaja when the air platforms traced them to the outskirts of the village. “On sighting the air platforms and conscious of air interdictions, following warning shots, the bandits scampered into the forest and abandoned the women.”  Aruwan further said: “The bandits had earlier injured one Hamza Ibrahim while moving out of the village with the kidnapped women, many of whom were house wives  The injured person was rushed to a facility where he is receiving attention and stabilising.” In another development, “The Kaduna State Government has sent condolences to His Royal  Highness the Emir of Birnin Gwari, on the death of his personal driver, Nasiru Muhammad in an attack by armed bandits.  “Security agencies reported that armed bandits attacked the Buruku- Birnin Gwari road and Nasiru Muhammad was shot dead around Ungwan Yako forest along the route.”    At least four people were killed while others were injured when bandits attacked Katarma village in Chikun Local Government Area of Kaduna State. The gunmen also abducted several people, mainly women. The state Commissioner for Internal Security and Home Affairs, Samuel Aruwan, confirmed the attack. He said: "Security agencies have… January 8, 2021 In "Metro & Crime" The Kaduna State government has said that many bandits have been killed following the aerial bombardment of some locations within the state. The state Commissioner, Ministry of Internal Security and Home Affairs, Samuel Aruwan, in a statement, said the bombardment took place in Chikun and Birnin Gwari Local Government Areas… May 15, 2021 In "News" No fewer than 20 vigilantes have been killed by bandits in an ambush in Kotonkoro Village of Mariga local government area of Niger State and 9 villagers in Kaduna State yesterday. In Niger, findings revealed that the bandits attacked a military base in Kotonkoro on Wednesday during which a soldier… March 26, 2021 In "News"