 Ryan Giggs will make his first appearance at Manchester Crown Court on Friday for a plea and trial preparation hearing.
The Wales manager is due to appear at 9.45am in front of His Honour Judge Dean QC, The Honorary Recorder of Manchester.
Former Manchester United footballer Giggs was charged with causing actual bodily harm to a woman in her 30s and common assault of a woman in her 20s at an address in Salford last November, reports Sky News.
He was also charged with coercive or controlling behaviour.
The charge of controlling and coercive behaviour alleges the abuse lasted almost three years, between December 2017 and November 2020.
Giggs denies all charges. He appeared in the dock at Manchester Magistrates’ Court last month as the three charges against him were read out and entered not guilty pleas.
Giggs released a statement, saying he had “full respect for the due process of law and understand the seriousness of the allegations”.
He added: “I will plead not guilty in court and look forward to clearing my name.
“I would like to wish Robert Page, the coaching staff, the players and the supporters every success at the Euros this summer.”
Giggs won 64 caps for Wales and had a glittering playing career with Manchester United, winning 13 Premier League titles, two Champions League trophies, four FA Cups and three League Cups.
He is also a co-owner of League Two side Salford City.  Wales manager and ex-Manchester United player Ryan Giggs has been charged with assaulting his former girlfriend. He is accused of causing actual bodily harm to Kate Greville, 36, and common assault of a woman in her 20s - understood to be her sister - at his home in Salford last… April 23, 2021 In "Sports" Wales’ manager Ryan Giggs has denied an allegation of assault made against him. The Wales manager has been arrested on suspicion of assaulting his girlfriend, several newspapers have reported. His representatives said he denies all allegations of assault made against him and is co-operating with the police, reports the BBC.… November 3, 2020 In "Sports" Manchester United captain Harry Maguire was today handed a 21-month suspended prison sentence after he was found guilty of assaulting and trying to bribe Greek police as the prosecutor blasted the footballer's 'pack of lies'. Maguire, 27, was found guilty of assaulting police, verbal abuse, and attempted bribery after the alleged… August 25, 2020 In "Sports"