The Nigeria Football Federation says it was immensely pained by news of the death of Head Coach of the Beach Soccer National Team (Supersand Eagles), Audu Adamu on Saturday. ‘Ejo’, who has led the Supersand Eagles to several FIFA World Cup and Beach Soccer AFCON campaigns, lost the battle against diabetes on Saturday evening.  “It is very painful for us at the NFF. Coach Adamu was a very dedicated head of the technical crew of our Beach Soccer Team. He won several laurels with the team and was a highly disciplined and dedicated individual.  “The NFF never had any serious issues with him all through the years he spent with the Supersand Eagles. He did his job quietly and never courted undue limelight. He was very hard working, energetic and committed to beach soccer, and was simple, humble and humane. Nigerian Football will miss him.  “We love him but God loves him more. We pray that God grants him eternal rest and also grant the family and loved ones he has left behind eternal rest,” said NFF General Secretary, Dr Mohamamed Sanusi.  Audu Adamu Ejo, head coach of Nigeria’s beach soccer national team better known as the Super Sand Eagles, has passed on. Isiaka Olawale, former captain of the Sand Eagles told TheCable that Adamu had been ill for a while before he died from diabetes on Saturday in an undisclosed… May 23, 2021 In "Sports" The Nigeria Football Federation (NFF) has given its word to provide necessary support within its capacity to the African Beach Soccer Union – a body created to channel and develop the game of beach soccer in the continent. General Secretary of the NFF, Dr. Mohammed Sanusi gave this pledge on… September 7, 2020 In "Sports" The Nigeria Football Federation (NFF) has consoled the family of the Head Coach of the U15 Boys’ National Team (Future Eagles), Mr. Danladi Nasidi who died in the early hours of Wednesday and buried same day. Chairman of the NFF Technical and Development Committee, Alhaji Yusuf Ahmed ‘Fresh’ paid glowing… August 12, 2020 In "Sports"