• Former England captain to leave after Champions League final
• ‘It’s time to do things that I’ve always promised myself I’d do’ Gary Lineker is to leave his position as host of BT Sport’s Champions League coverage to follow Leicester in Europe as a fan next season.
The former England captain and Leicester, Tottenham and Barclona striker and BBC’s Match of the Day host has presented the channel’s coverage for six years but is quitting despite being offered a new deal to stay on. His final match will be Saturday’s Champions League final between Chelsea and Manchester City, reports PA Media.
“I would like to thank BT Sport for the generous renewal offer but, after much thought, I have decided to call it a day,” Lineker wrote on Twitter. “I feel it’s time to do things that I’ve always promised myself I’d do: such as follow Leicester across Europe with my sons [how many opportunities will we have?].”
Leicester are due to play in the Europa League again next season after finishing fifth in the Premier League for the second successive year. They reached the last 32 of the 2020-21 competition before being knocked out by Slavia Prague.
A tweet from BT Sport said: “Thanks so much for everything, Gary! A legend of the game, and a legend of broadcasting. We’ll miss you, enjoy your away days!”
Lineker, who turned 60 in November, is among the BBC’s highest-paid presenters. It was announced in September 2020 that he had signed a new five-year contract with the broadcaster, with a 23% pay cut – from £1.75m to around £1.35m. He has four sons with his first wife Michelle Cockayne.  Former England striker-turned TV football presenter Gary Lineker is facing a £5m tax claim from HM Revenue & Customs (HMRC), court documents show. The taxman believes, according to the papers released ahead of a tax tribunal, that the star owes £3,621,735.90 in income tax and £1,307,160.46 in National Insurance… May 7, 2021 In "Sports" Former Manchester United and England defender Gary Neville has reacted furiously to the news that six Premier League clubs have agreed to take part in a new breakaway European Super League. Shortly before Sunday night’s announcement, Neville said it was time to “wrestle back power” from the clubs involved, saying… April 19, 2021 In "Sports" *Aguero shines as Man City hammer Everton 5-0 *Wins for Man Utd, Liverpool, Spurs, Leeds Chelsea secured a place in next season's Champions League despite losing to Aston Villa, Thomas Tuchel's side sealing a top-four spot ahead of Leicester City. The Blues had started the final day of the Premier… May 23, 2021 In "Sports"