 There has been a fire outbreak at the office of the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) in Enugu state.
The affected office is located in Obollo-Afor, Udenu LGA of the state.
Daniel Ndukwe, Enugu State police spokesperson, confirmed the incident to NAN on Friday.
Ndukwe said the fire incident occurred at about 9:40pm on Thursday.
He said: “The Command received a distress call at its Udenu Police Divisional Headquarters alleging that there was fire outbreak at the Obollo-Afor office of the INEC in Udenu council area.
“Police operatives attached to the Division immediately raced to the scene, while contacting Enugu State Fire Service office in the area to promptly put off the fire.”
He said the fire was eventually put off before it could spread to other offices around the building, through combined efforts of the fire service, the police, and residents.
“Preliminary investigation suggests that the fire may have been caused by power surge due to sudden power supply to the building before the incident occurred,” the police spokesman said.
He said Mohammed Aliyu, the Commissioner of Police in Enugu, has ordered an investigation to determine the actual cause of the fire outbreak.
The fire outbreak is coming days after the Commission’s offices in Akwa Ibom and Abia were razed.  Fire yesterday gutted two warehouses at 62 Iga Idunganran Street on Lagos Island in Lagos State. The fire also burnt over 32 shops and goods worth millions of Naira and several other valuables. Although there was no loss of life, it was learnt that the inferno badly affected the 2nd… January 29, 2021 In "Metro & Crime" Adewale Momoh, Akure The Ondo State office of the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) is currently on fire. The fire outbreak which started on Thursday night at the ICT unit of the Commission, was yet to be contained as at press time. The Inferno was said to have started… September 10, 2020 In "Top Stories" An office belonging to the National Drug Law Enforcement Agency (NDLEA) in Abia State has been set on fire by suspected gunmen. The agency’s office, located in the Amaekpu Ohafia Local Government Area of the state, was attacked yesterday, according to an online news portal, TheCable. “Yes, please,” Femi Babalola,… May 12, 2021 In "News"