 A police station in Bende Local Government of Abia State is currently on fire.
It was learnt that yet to be identified gunmen stormed the police station in the early hours of Thursday.
The attackers were said to have burnt all the vehicles parked in the station before razing the building.
The police station is situated at the outer gate of the LGA headquarters and less than 10 metres from the LGA field.
“We heard series of gunshots, and when we rushed outside, we saw the station on fire,” a resident said.
The incident happened less than six hours after Governor Okezie Ikpeazu left Bende LGA headquarters where a civic reception was held for the immediate past House of Representatives member who represented Bende Federal Constituency, Hon. Nnenna Ukeje.
Ukeje spent 12 years at the house of reps.
The attack on Bende Police Station comes less than a weeks after gunmen razed the Ubani Market Police station, still in Bende LGA.
The outlawed Independent People of Biafra (IPOB) has been blamed for these attacks but the group has denied being responsible.  Apprehension, like a cloak, hangs over the firmament of Abia State, as criminals shift attention to security agents and infrastructure, writes IGBEAKU ORJI In the last couple of months, residents of Abia State have been terrorised by incessant attacks by groups which have been variously described as bandits, hoodlums, gunmen,… May 6, 2021 In "Feature" ● Attackers used dynamites, rocket launcher   Rampaging gunmen unleashing a reign of terror in states in the South-East yesterday set ablaze a zonal police headquarters in Anambra State and a police station in Abia State.   The armed men attacked the Zone 13 Police Headquarters at Ukpo in Dunukofia… April 20, 2021 In "Metro & Crime" Recent attacks and killings of policemen and officers across the country are giving stakeholders the jitters, according to New Telegraph investigations These are certainly not the best of times for personnel of the Nigerian Police as many of them continued to come under violent attacks in different parts of the… March 4, 2021 In "Insight"