 Manchester City have thanked their fans for their support following their Champions League final loss to Chelsea at the Estádio do Dragão in Portugal on Saturday.
“It wasn’t the night you deserved,” Manchester City said, “but we’re eternally grateful for your immense support today and throughout this difficult season!”
“Win or lose, City till’ we die!,” the final part of the message read.
Pep Guardiola’s City side fell a goal behind in the 42nd minute of the game after Mason Mount assisted Kai Havertz to a comfortable finish.
With key player Kevin De Bruyne getting injured and substituted — following a head-on collision with Chelsea’s Antonio Rüdiger — The Cityzens were unable to break through Chelsea’s defensive wall.
A last-minute attempt by Riyad Mahrez which was only a couple of inches away from goal was City’s final goal-scoring attempt before the final blast of the whistle went off and had Chelsea win their second ever Champions League title.
Saturday’s defeat is coach Pep Guardiola’s first Champions League final loss, and by losing the final, City lost the chance to clinch their first-ever Champions League trophy.  *Brighton come back to upset 10-man Man City *Cavani scores stunner in Man Utd draw, Leeds sink Saints Chelsea beat Leicester City to boost their Champions League hopes - and leave the Foxes in danger of missing out. Just three days after Leicester beat Chelsea 1-0 in the FA Cup final, Chelsea… May 19, 2021 In "Sports" *Guardiola down plays Aguero's fluffed penalty Hundreds of Manchester City fans gathered outside the Etihand Stadium for a Premier League title celebration that proved premature as Chelsea ruined the script with a last-minute 2-1 victory on Saturday. City manager Pep Guardiola left out a host of first-team regulars for a… May 9, 2021 In "Sports" Chelsea ended Manchester City's hopes of winning an historic quadruple as they edged a closely-fought FA Cup semi-final at Wembley.   City and Chelsea had both secured their places in the last four of the Champions League this week - but Pep Guardiola's side had their sights set on a… April 18, 2021 In "Sports"