 Ardent followers of popular Nigerian singer, Chidinma Ekile, have said that the singer’s change to gospel music does not come as a surprise. Some of the fans who commented on her social media page recalled that Ekile, while in the MTN Project Fame where her talent for music was harnessed, have always shown that her background in music was rooted in gospel. “To me its like she went back to her roots. Her voice is meant for gospel,” said Temi Dee, one of her Instagram follower. The petite beauty dumped secular music for gospel songs with the intention of ministering the word of God through music. Chidinma revealed on her Instagram page as she shared a video of herself singing a gospel song in a church. She also deleted all previous pictures and videos of her songs on her Instagram page. The 30-year-old singer wrote, alongside the video: “My name is Minister Chidinma Ekile. I am a crusader of the gospel of Jesus Christ. “Your future needs you, your past doesn’t. The devil knows your name but he calls you by your sins. God knows your sins but he calls you by your name. The message is Jesus. I will reign in life because the creator of the ends of the earth loves me.” Before becoming a minister, Chidinma was known for her hit songs ‘Kedike‘ and ‘Yanga’   Nigerian singer, Chidinma Ekile, says she regrets “wasting” so much time doing secular music. The musician disclosed this at a recent event while reacting to her decision to switch from secular music to gospel songs. She announced herself as a “crusader of Jesus Christ” with ‘Jehovah Overdo’, a gospel-inclined track,… May 7, 2021 In "Arts & Entertainments" Ireland-based Nigerian gospel singer, Elizabeth Olusola Anjorin, aka Liz Dayspring, is set roll out the drums to celebrate her 10th year anniversary in the music industry. Liz Dayspring who started her career in the music scene in 2010, has in the last 10 years released two albums, and she is… September 11, 2020 In "Arts & Entertainments" Gospel singer and co-pastor at The Father's Church, Abuja, Chineze Okeke has unveiled her new gospel song titled: 'Oyigiyigi'. The singer, who is also a worship leader in her church, explained that the song is from her second album 'Jubilee Sound' and strongly believes  that this is the time for people… January 31, 2021 In "Arts & Entertainments"