 Nigerian governors across the 36 states of the country have slammed President Muhammadu Buhari’s handling of the state legislatures and judiciaries’ autonomy, saying it is detrimental to the nation.
Specifically, the Nigeria Governors’ Forum resolved to call for the immediate dissolution of the Presidential Implementation Committee on the Autonomy of State Legislature and Judiciary.
The forum said the presidential committee was now acting as a permanent committee “basically misguiding and overheating the relationship between state governments and the other arms of government.”
The forum affirmed this in a communiqué issued on Wednesday night after its 30th teleconference.
The forum in the communiqué signed by its Chairman, Governor Kayode Fayemi, said talks on Executive Order 10 had reached an advanced stage with the Ministry of Labour, conference of Speakers, and the National Judicial Council.
“There are, however, legal aspects of the order that need to be tied up, but which cannot take place if officials responsible for these final processes are on strike. Governors are happy to implement the demands of the judiciary and the legislature,” Fayemi said.
Buhari in 2020 signed into law Executive Order No. 10 of 2020 for the implementation of financial autonomy for state legislatures and judiciaries.  'Fiscal autonomy for legislature and judiciary' ll deepen democracy'   AKEEM NAFIU writes that more than 10 months after the issuance of an Executive Order by President Muhammadu Buhari, fiscal autonomy for state legislatures and judiciaries has remained a mirage as state governors continue to observe Section 121(3) of the… April 5, 2021 In "Law" The Nigerian Governors’ Forum (NGF) is poised to make financial autonomy of the legislature and judiciary across the country possible.   Governor Aminu Tambuwal of Sokoto State, who is the Vice Chairman of the NGF, made this known when he swore in the new Grand Khadi of the state’s Sharia… June 30, 2020 In "News" It is no pretext that one of President Muhammadu Buhari-led administration’s legacies after office is to leave behind a corruption-free and independent judiciary. Even before he came into office as Nigeria’s president, Buhari had desired a strong and corruptionfree judiciary. So, the President signed an executive order into law to… December 18, 2020 In "Editorial"