Six of the best women football playing nations in Africa, including South Africa, Cameroun, Mali, Morocco, and Ghana will converge on Nigeria for the Aisha Buhari Invitational Tournament billed to hold in September.  According to the Chairman Nigeria Women Football League, Aisha Falode, First Lady, Aisha Buhari, has endorsed the championship, which is one of the programmes aimed at uplifting the girl/child in the continent.   Already, South, Ghana, Cameroun, Mali and Morocco have signified their intention to participate in the competition, which will attract many of the biggest international football figures to Nigeria.  Falode says the competition is a direct effect of the election into the FIFA Council of Nigeria Football Federation’s (NFF) President, Amaju Pinnick, who is particularly interested in the development of women football in the continent. She added, “It will be a festival of women football with some of the biggest names in world soccer expected to be in Nigeria to witness the matches and also participate in some of the events lined up alongside the games. “Friends of the first lady are also expected be at the event to support her throughout the tournament   The Federal Government has handed the President of the Nigeria Football Federation (NFF), Amaju Melvin Pinnick an unqualified backing in his quest to win a seat on the FIFA Council – the highest decision-making organ in world football – at next week’s Confederation of African Football (CAF) elections in Rabat,… March 4, 2021 In "Sports" In Europe and other parts of the world, football restart is on the centre stage with all the necessary protocols of COVID-19 observed fully. The players are subjected to tests twice in a week. Germany started it all based on commercial reasons and the Bundesliga successfully ended at the weekend… July 9, 2020 In "Editorial" Nigerian football scene is currently enveloped by drama on various fronts. The Nigeria Football Federation and the League Management Company are yet to come out with an official position on whether to restart or cancel the 2019/2020 Nigeria Professional Football League season. So far, stakeholders are divided even after 17… July 4, 2020 In "Sports"