 Regina Otokpa, Abuja The National Examinations Council (NECO), has rescheduled the 2021 National Common Entrance Examination (NCEE) into Federal Unity Colleges.
The examination, which was initially scheduled to hold on Saturday May 29, 2021, will now be written on Saturday June 5, 2021.
A statement made available to newsmen by NECO’s Head Information and Public Relations Division, Azeez Sani on Wednesday in Abuja, noted that the new date was approved by the Federal Ministry of Education.
According to the Council, the examination “was rescheduled to give states with low registration of candidates the opportunity to register their candidates for the examination.
“All candidates, parents, guardians and relevant stakeholders are therefore enjoined to take note of the new date for the examination.
“The registration of candidates will continue till the new date of the examination.
“Candidates, parents and guardians are advised to download the new Examination Time Table from the Council’s website.”  A comprehensive schedule for various national examinations, holding from 17th August to 18th November, 2020, for graduating classes has been released by the Federal Government. The schedule was an offshoot from the series of meetings held between the Ministers of Education and all the Chief Executives of examination bodies in… July 30, 2020 In "News" The National Examinations Council  (NECO), has yet again rescheduled more examination papers in the ongoing Senior Secondary Certificate Examinations holding nationwide.   A statement signed by by the Head Information and Public Relations NECO Division, Azeez Sani, and made available to newsmen on Wednesday in Abuja, said papers meant to have been written from… October 21, 2020 In "Education" Due to frustrations occasioned by the continuous postponement and delay in the recommencement of the 2020 National Examination Council (NECO) Senior School Certificate Examination (SSCE), many candidates may not be returning to the halls to continue with the examination, especially now that West African Examination Council (WAEC) has released the… November 8, 2020 In "Sunday Magazine"