The Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) has extended its “Naira4Dollar scheme” until further notice. The apex bank disclosed this in a circular to deposit money banks (DMBs) and international money transfer operators (IMTOs), which was posted on its website yesterday. The circular, signed by A. S. Jibrin, for the Director of Trade and Exchange at CBN, noted that operations of the scheme remain the same. The circular reads in part: “Further to CBN circular referenced TED/FEM/PUB/ FPC/01/003 dated 05 March 2021 on the above subject matter, which was originally scheduled to end on May 8, 2021, we hereby announce the continuation of the scheme until further notice. “All aspects of the operationalization of the programme remain the same. Please take note and ensure compliance.” The naira for dollar scheme was introduced on March 6, 2021 as an incentive to boost diaspora remittances inflows into the country and bolster the nation’s external reserves. CBN Governor, Mr. Godwin Emefiele, said that the scheme was also aimed at increasing the transparency of remittance inflows and reducing rentseeking activities, adding that he was optimistic that the move will encourage banks and financial institutions to develop products and investments vehicles geared towards attracting investments from Nigerians in the Diaspora.  Polaris Bank has commenced implementation of the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN)’s directive, mandating lenders to pay an extra N5 for every dollar received into domiciliary accounts or as cash over the counter. In a statement, the acting Managing Director/ CEO of Polaris Bank, Mr. Innocent Ike, disclosed that “growing… March 18, 2021 In "Business" As the Central Bank of Nigeria’s (CBN) “Naira 4 Dollar Scheme” kicks off today, the apex bank has reiterated that the move is aimed at checking round tripping and providing Nigerians in the Diaspora with cheaper and more convenient ways of sending remittances to their loved ones, friends… March 8, 2021 In "News" The Manufacturers Association of Nigeria (MAN) has described Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN)’s policy on foreign exchange codenamed “Naira4dollar,” as a positive step to curbing further devaluation of the local currency and also reflate the economy. MAN’s Director-General, Mr. Segun Ajayi-Kadir, who disclosed this to New Telegraph in Lagos, said… March 18, 2021 In "Business"