President Muhammadu Buhari has received briefings from former President Goodluck Jonathan on the ongoing political crisis rocking Mali. Jonathan is Special Envoy and ECOWAS mediator to the West African country. According to a statement made available to newsmen yesterday by a Presidential spokesman, Femi Adesina, the former President briefed Buhari on the current situation in Mali after meeting with the key political actors ahead of the meeting of ECOWAS leaders under the Chairmanship of President Nana Akufo-Addo of the Republic of Ghana. He added that the meeting of the regional leaders was necessary to urgently find an acceptable solution to the current impasse in the West African nation. Speaking at the meeting, Buhari called on the actors in the political crisis in Mali to come together for the peace and unity of the country. Buhari said, “a situation where most parts of the country are in the hands of insurgents calls for a consensus and restoration of peace, not a further escalation of the crisis.”  Chairman of the Authority of Heads of State and Government of ECOWAS, President Mahamadou Issoufou of Niger Republic has said the sub-regional organisation will do all it could to mitigate the political crisis in Mali, after many hours of consultations in the nation's capital, Bamako, on Thursday. The meeting, attended… July 25, 2020 In "News" President Muhammadu Buhari has indicated that there may be need for Heads of State and Government of the Economic Community of West African States (ECOWAS), at the behest of their Chairman, President Nana Akufo-Addo of Ghana, to confer again to discuss outstanding grey areas in the Mali political situation.  … September 29, 2020 In "News" ...charges colleagues to conduct free, fair polls   President Muhammadu Buhari has charged the ECOWAS leaders to resist the temptation of tenure elongation and adhere strictly to their constitutional terms in office.   According to a statement made available to newsmen yesterday by his spokesman, Malam Garba Shehu, the President… September 8, 2020 In "News"