 Mark-Anthony Chibueze Opurum better known as ‘Ogologo Tallest’ is a graduate of Louisiana State University (LSU) where he earned a bachelor’s degree in Computer Science.
In recent years, however, his reputation as a shrewd and successful businessman continues to wax stronger
“I am a certified IT professional; I have had a lot of certified training besides university education. However, I decided to become an entrepreneur because business has always been my passion,” he affirmed.
His nostalgia for Nigeria revolves around his childhood of which he has fond memories.
“I had an awesome childhood, growing up in a house full of females everywhere,” he declared.
“I was pampered,  given anything I wanted. But my father was very, very strict on education. On the other hand, he inspired me to learn the art of business.”
Recently, Ogologo Tallest opened up on his true background.
“Although I am currently living in Dallas, Texas, USA, I am a full-blooded Nigerian,” he said.
“I was born and raised in Owerri, Imo State, my parents (now late) were Chief Samuel Opurum and Mrs Anthonia Opurum from Ngor Okpala Local Government in Imo.”
The third of seven children and the only son, Opurum, who was born on  April 20, 1991, had all his education in Nigeria.
“I had my primary education at St Francis Urate in Owerri, while I started my secondary education at Logos International secondary school Owerri, but later transferred to FSTC Ahoada River State and eventually completed it at St Paul’s Boys Secondary school, Owerri,” he offered.
Continuing he confirmed: “It was after the secondary education that I travelled to America for undergraduate studies.”
It is also important to note that one of Ogologo Tallest’s s companies, Murupo Group Nigeria Limited, has continued to soar in its operation in the oil and gas sector as well as being a player in real estate.
Ogologo Tallest is also the founder of Hans Integrated Service, and music label, T-Records.  In Abraham Lincoln's letter to his son's teacher, one of the greatest men who ever lived on planet earth did write — "Teach him if you can that 10 cents earned is of far more value than a dollar found."   This excerpt, unequivocally, flashes a sense of striking similitude,… October 6, 2020 In "News" Call him a serial investor, art connoisseur and a servant of humanity, and you are no doubt stating the obvious. Frank Momoh, founder and President of the FROT Group of Companies, has over 30 years of entrepreneurship experience in providing unconventional business solutions in the Nigeria market.   He is… February 24, 2021 In "Arts & Entertainments" Young describes himself as a natural-born entrepreneur who is in love with the "hustle", so it's no surprise that he was able to switch and manage many businesses. In life, there are certain people who are born to do extraordinary things. Ricardo Young is one of these unique individuals, as… December 21, 2020 In "News"