Royal Dutch Shell has announced a “significant” discovery at the Leopard prospect in the deep-water U.S. Gulf of Mexico.  An oil discovery in the U.S. takes the major oil consuming nation far away from crude exporters like Nigeria. U.S. had, at some points, imported about one million barrels of crude per day from the West Africa nation.  It put a deep-cut in the consumption level from Africa’s biggest crude oil exporter to below 20 per cent and this latest discovery is expected to boost selfreliance and may spell trouble for Nigeria and other suppliers.  The Leopard well encountered over 600 feet of net oil pay at multiple levels, according to Shell, which said evaluation was on-going to further define development options.  Meanwhile, the U.S. Energy Information Administration (EIA) updated its Brent spot price averages for 2021 and 2022 in its latest short term energy outlook.  The organisation warned, however, that its latest report was subject to heightened levels of uncertainty because responses to COVID-19 continue to evolve. Royal Dutch Shell Plc’s head also expects clean energy to make up half of the company’s energy mix“somewhereinthenextdecade.  “If we do not make that type of process by the middle of next decade, we have a problem not just as a company but as a society,” Chief Executive Officer, Ben van Beurden, said in an interview with AXIOS on HBO.  The next decade will be at its middle by 2035, according to checks. Like its European peers, the Anglo-Dutch major had set itself an “ambition” to become a netzero emissions energy company by the middle of this century.  The feat involves producing less oil, more gas and renewables, as well as using technologies still in their infancy like hydrogen and carbon sequestration.  Exports to the United States from Nigeria under the duty-free policy have declined by 88 per cent from $2.5billion in the first eight months of 2019 to $300.48 million in the corresponding period in 2020. According to the latest African Growth and Opportunity Act (AGOA) policy trade statistics, oil export… October 28, 2020 In "Business" More economic hardship appear on the way for Nigeria and other oil producers as the International Energy Agency IEA yesterday slashed its 2021 global oil demand forecast, citing soaring Covid- 19 cases and renewed lockdown measures that would further limit mobility. Nigeria, Africa’s biggest crude oil exporter, depends majorly on… January 20, 2021 In "News" •Says global demand to hit 97.7m barrels daily in 2021 The Organisation of Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC) yesterday said that it expected Nigeria’s crude oil prosperity back on the track as it declared that the World demand oil would hit 97.72 million barrels daily starting from the next five months.… July 16, 2020 In "News"