 Former Governor of Abia State and Chief Whip of the Senate, Dr. Orji Kalu has commiserated with the Nigerian army over the demise of the Chief of Army Staff, Lt. Gen Ibrahim Attahiru, who died alongside other military personnel in a plane crash on Friday evening near Kaduna International airport, Kaduna State.
Expressing shock and sadness over the ugly incident, the former governor, extolled the virtues of the late General, who had over the years, demonstrated patriotism and professionalism in the discharge of his duties and responsibilities.
While extending his heartfelt condolences to the families of the military officers who lost their lives, Kalu prayed to God to grant the departed souls eternal rest.
In a condolence message, Kalu called for full scale investigations into the circumstances that led to the plane crash to avert a recurrence.
He said: “On behalf of the people of Abia North Senatorial district, I sympathize with the Nigerian Armed Forces over the huge loss of its personnel in the air crash.
“The loss of lives of committed and patriotic personnel of the Nigerian armed forces is shocking and devastating.
“Our thoughts and prayers are with families of the military officers.
“May their souls rest in peace.”
The former governor called on the appropriate authorities to honour the departed souls for their patriotic service to the nation.  Former Governor of Abia State and Chief Whip of the Senate, Dr. Orji Kalu, has commiserated with the government and people of Plateau state over the demise of former Chief of Defence Staff, General Joshua Dogonyaro (rtd). According to Kalu, the deceased was a gallant army officer who served in… May 14, 2021 In "News" Tragedy befell the nation yesterday as a Beechcraft KingAir B350i belonging to the Nigerian Air Force (NAF) crashed some 200 metres away from the Nnamdi Azikiwe International Airport (NAIA), killing all seven personnel aboard.   The ill-fated aircraft, which took-off from Minna, the Niger State capital, was said to have… February 22, 2021 In "News" The Nigerian Air Force (NAF), has confirmed that, “An air crash involving a @NigAir- Force aircraft occurred this evening near the Kaduna International Airport”. In a terse statement by the Director of Public Relations and Information (DOPRI), Air Commodore Edward Gabkwet, the NAF noted thus: “The immediate cause of the… May 22, 2021 In "News"