As Muslim faithful celebrate the successful end of this year’s Ramadan, the Christian Association of Nigeria (CAN), has appealed to the Nigerian Supreme Council for Islamic Affairs (NSCIA), to caution Islamic extremists promoting and engaging in acts of insurgency and terrorism, to desist from giving Islam a bad name. In a message congratulating leadership of the NSCIA and all Muslim faithful in the country, CAN, through its General Secretary, Daramola Joseph, prayed that the aftermath of the just concluded Ramadan would usher in peace and unity into the country. The message reads in part: “We are not unaware that your fasting was in obedience to the divine directive: “O you who have believed, decreed upon you is fasting as it was decreed upon those before you that you may become righteous” — Surat Al-Baqarah 2:183. May God answer all your godly prayers offered throughout the month. “We appeal to the leadership of NSCIA to continue to advise and caution the extremists who are not well grounded in the faith and whose wicked and ungodly actions are giving bad names to Islam. It is trite to know that no godly person will engage in the promotion of violence, kidnapping, banditry and terrorism or identify with the perpetrators. “We recognise and appreciate the ‘efforts’ that are being made by the Police and other security agencies towards ensuring peaceful celebrations. May God put His fears into the hearts of our leaders to promptly do what is right, justly, and godly. “We also pray that those who have compromised and are compromising the security in the country will have a change of mind and those who refused to change will be exposed and sanctioned by the Almighty God Himself.” CAN will not relent in promoting religious tolerance, peace and unity in our country in collaboration with NSCIA genuinely.
 We remain partners in peace making. Let us continue working together for peace, unity and progress of the country. CAN further pledged not to “relent in promoting religious tolerance, peace and unity in our country in collaboration with NSCIA genuinely. We remain partners in peace making. Let us continue working together for peace, unity and progress of the country. “Our heart goes to the families and friends of those who are bereaved, especially as a result of senseless and unwarranted killings in the country. May God console and comfort them all. “Eid Mubarak to the leadership of NSCIA and all the Muslims in the country. Happy celebrations.”  ...pledges to genuinely promote religious tolerance, peace, unity As Muslim faithful celebrate the successful end of this year's Ramadan, the Christian Association of Nigeria (CAN), has appealed to the Nigerian Supreme Council for Islamic Affairs (NSCIA), to caution Islamic extremists promoting and engaging in acts if insurgency and terrorism, to… May 13, 2021 In "News" Leadership of the Christian Association of Nigeria (CAN) has accused the Nigerian Supreme Council for Islamic Affairs (NSCIA) of promoting bad governance and injustice in the country.   This came as the Association insisted it has no form of hatred for Islam or Muslims, as perceived by the Council, as… April 12, 2021 In "News" The Jama’atu Nasril Islam (JNI), under the leadership of the Sultan of Sokoto, Alhaji Muhammad Sa'ad Abubakar III, yesterday asked the Federal Government to address agitations for break-up of the country by tackling the prevailing insecurity across the states. JNI also disclosed that tackling the economic hardship and addressing the… May 12, 2021 In "News"