 Barcelona and Bayern Munich are trying to sign Liverpool midfielder Georginio Wijnaldum on a free transfer this summer.
Wijnaldum, 30, confirmed on Sunday he will leave Liverpool at the end of his contract next month after five years at the club.
The Netherlands midfielder, who will captain his country at this summer’s Euros, is also a target for four other unnamed clubs, reports Sky Sports.
Wijnaldum, who has made 237 appearances for Liverpool since he joined from Newcastle in July 2016, won the Champions League and Premier League in consecutive seasons during his spell at Anfield.
“I hoped to play many more years for the club but unfortunately things went different, I think everyone knows in football that anything can happen but the situation right now is that on July 1 I’m not a Liverpool player anymore,” Wijnaldum told Sky Sports after Liverpool’s win against Crystal Palace secured Champions League qualification.
Wijnaldum was the subject of transfer interest from Barcelona over the past year, with current boss Ronald Koeman keen to bring his countryman to the Nou Camp.  Liverpool have agreed a deal to sign the midfielder Thiago Alcântara from Bayern Munich for €30m (£27.3m). Liverpool had been reluctant to pay that much for a 29-year-old with one year on his contract but have accepted the need to meet Bayern’s demands to land Jürgen Klopp’s key target. The… September 17, 2020 In "Sports" Liverpool manager Jurgen Klopp says he is not "available" to succeed Joachim Low as manager of his native Germany. The German Football Association has announced that Low will leave the role after this summer's European Championships, reports the BBC. "Am I available for the job after the summer? No," said Klopp.… March 9, 2021 In "Sports" Bayern Munich midfielder Thiago Alcantara has reportedly said his goodbyes to his teammates after agreeing a four-year deal with Liverpool. The Reds are keen on striking an agreement with Bayern for the 29-year-old as Jurgen Klopp looks to bolster his options in the middle of the park, reports mirror.co.uk. And,… August 16, 2020 In "Sports"