 Audu Adamu Ejo, head coach of Nigeria’s beach soccer national team better known as the Super Sand Eagles, has passed on.
Isiaka Olawale, former captain of the Sand Eagles told TheCable that Adamu had been ill for a while before he died from diabetes on Saturday in an undisclosed hospital in Ayingba, Kogi state.
“It came to me as a rude shock that Ejo is no more because it was barely an hour that it was posted on our platform [Sand Eagles whatsapp group] that we needed to support him, that we were told he died,” Olawale said.
“He had been sick for a while. He got better and got sick again. He had always been dealing with diabetes. Reason why he never took any sugar content whenever we are in camp.
“He managed the situation pretty well but I am still in shock that he is no more.
“Just like we lost Agbo, our assistant coach then, we have lost another great Beach Soccer coach. He is a great loss to the sporting family. May his soul Rest In Peace.”
The Nigeria Football Federation (NFF) also mourned the deceased via its official Twitter handle.
“Ejo” — as he was fondly called — was appointed as the Sand Eagles coach in 2009. He was an assistant to Shuaibu Amodu and Kelechi Emetole, both of blessed memories.
He led Nigeria to win their second Beach Nations Cup title the same year he was appointed as the head coach of the team.
He also took the two-time African champion to six Beach Soccer World Cup tournaments and three Copa Lagos successes.  Retired Super Eagles goalkeeper, Ike Shorunmu, in an interview with a Whatsapp group, FUBF, monitored by CHARLES OGUNDIYA, said he learnt a lot from all the goalkeepers he met at the national team. Excerpts… What was your development like as a goalkeeper? It was very interesting; the most important thing… June 20, 2020 In "Sports" Ex-international Bright Omokaro told AJIBADE OLUSESAN in this interview that Super Eagles Coach Gernot Rohr has been a monumental failure and should have been fired long ago. How did you receive the news of the death of your former teammate Yisa Sofoluwe? I think I am still in shock at… February 13, 2021 In "Sports" Ex-international, Sunday Oliseh, has described as a shock the death of Argentina great, Diego Maradona, who died of cardiac arrest on Wednesday at the age of 60. Oliseh as Nigerian defensive midfielder at the 1994 FIFA World Cup was given the job of marking Maradona in what would turn out… November 27, 2020 In "Sports"