 Muhammad Kabir, Kano Despite sporadic shootings by some armed kidnappers, who attempted to whisk away their victim at Yamadawa Quarters of Dorayi Babba Kano, the dare devil action of members of the community not only stopped them but also ensured they were apprehended.
The incident, according to an eye witness, occured shortly after Wednesday’s end of fasting when some heavily armed kidnappers stormed a house of one alhaji and attempted to abduct him.
But the man, who was about to drive into his garage, was said to have sighted the kidnappers and immediately took to his heels shouting at the top of his voice, which attracted the attention of members of the community.
The eyewitness, who pleaded anonymity, said the kidnappers on realising their plan had been blown, started shooting sporadically and snatched a ‘Keke Napep’ in a desperate attempt to flee the scene.
But members of the community overpowered them and beat them to a state of stupor after which they were handed over to the police, who immediately took them to hospital.
The spokesperson of the Kano Police Command, DSP Haruna Abdullahi Kiyawa, confirmed the incident, but declined further comments.  Dare devil kidnappers, who wanted to abduct some residents in Kaduna State on Thursday, shot dead two persons before fleeing into the bush. The diseased were allegedly shot dead Thursday night when the kidnappers in their numbers invaded the community but were challenged by the youths who mobilised themselves and… August 29, 2020 In "News" Following months of banditry and kidnappings that pervaded most parts of Ondo State, ADEWALE MOMOH writes on how the menace was frontally tackled in the state   For a while, most highways in Ondo State had turned to havens of criminal activities due to the rampant cases of banditry and… April 7, 2021 In "City Life" There was pandemonium in Minjibir Local Government Area of Kano State on Wednesday when some heavily armed gunmen  stormed the Council, shooting sporadically.   The incident,  according to an eyewitnes, happened at about 2am, prompting residents to flee for safety.   The eyewitness narrated that as the gunmen continue shooting… December 23, 2020 In "Metro & Crime"