 The Nigeria Civil Aviation Agency (NCAA) has announced the resumption of international flights at the Port Harcourt International Airport in River State immediately.
The agency, however, said the resumption of international flights at the Akanu Ibiam International Airport Enugu will be announced in due course.
According to a letter dated May 4, 2021, signed by the NCAA director-general, Captain Musa Nuhu and addressed to all Aviation stakeholders and foreign airlines flying into Nigeria, with reference number NCAA/DG/AIR/11/16/309, the NCAA said the decision followed the announcement of the Presidential Steering Committee (PSC) on COVID-19 on staggered resumption of international flights.
Recall that the federal government had on March 16, 2021, announced the dates for the resumption of international flight operations at Kano, Port Harcourt and Enugu International Airports, which were shut down in 2020 as part of the measures to contain the spread of the coronavirus disease.
The Minister of Aviation, Hadi Sirika, while speaking at a briefing of the defunct Presidential Task Force (PTF) on COVID-19, had said Kano Airport would be reopened on April 5, 2021, Port Harcourt Airport would reopen on April 15, 2021, while the Enugu Airport would be reopened on May 3, 2021.
After the special flights operated by Ethiopian Airlines and Egypt Air on April 6, 2021, from Kano to Addis Ababa and Cairo respectively, international flight service was expected to have officially opened from the Kano Airport.  *FAAN to open new China funded terminal at Lagos airport Wole Shadare To show that the country means business to ensure that international flights resume on September 5, the Nigerian Airspace Management Agency (NAMA) has issued the Notice To Airmen (NOTAM) for air traffic control clearance. The Managing Director of… September 3, 2020 In "Aviation" To ensure that international flights resumed on September 5, the Nigerian Airspace Management Agency (NAMA) has issued Notice To Airmen (NOTAM) for air traffic control clearance. Managing Director of NAMA, Capt. Fola Akinkuotu, said NOTAM was issued immediately a circular was received from the Nigerian Civil Aviation Authority (NCAA) yesterday,… September 4, 2020 In "News" Aviation Minister, Hadi Sirika, said Nigeria would most likely re-open the country’s airspace to international flights earlier than October 2020. The minister, on his verified Twitter handle @hadisirika, said what was earlier announced to be re-opening of airspace to international flights for October 15, 2020 was the routine 90-day Notice… July 22, 2020 In "News"