 As part of his Corporate Social Responsibilities (CSR), multi-talented Nigerian-American rapper, King Joel has announced that in appreciation of Mother’s Day in Nigeria and for their impact towards every child’s upbringing, the superstar is offering a N2.5 million
cash giveaway for them.
Speaking on the need to appreciate mothers, King Joel disclosed that the role of a mother in a child’s life cannot be overemphasized as they are responsible for the proper moulding of whatever a child becomes in future; hence the need to always appreciate them is important.
As part of the giveaway, mothers need to go to @iamkingjoel page on Instagram and drop a comment and a winner will be selected and announced in a week.
A cash prize of N1million will be presented by Joel himself while the three other lucky mothers will get
N500,000 each to be picked by @theshaderoom,@instablog9ja and his fans who are known as #AngelsOfGod
It is, however, pertinent to note that King Joel is surely one artiste to lookout for in the Nigerian music industry and he is already planning to get a grip of the western markets too.  Talented Nigerian-American rapper, Joel Living God better known as 'King Joel' by his teaming fans has teamed up with prolific singer and ‘Amaka’ crooner, Peruzzi on a new song titled ‘Online’ that is expected to be released in the coming weeks. Speaking King Joel noted that the new song, ‘… November 3, 2020 In "Arts & Entertainments" The madness of incestuous relationship between relatives like father and daughter, uncle and niece and others seems not to be lessening at all. It is now becoming a daily news about rape, defilement and one incestuous relationship or other. Babatope Okeowo reports the incestuous relationship between Fatima Usman and her… February 5, 2021 In "Feminique" Liverpool centre-back Virgil van Dijk needs surgery on a knee ligament injury sustained in the 2-2 draw at Everton on Saturday. The 29-year-old Netherlands defender was unable to continue following a rash challenge by Toffees keeper Jordan Pickford in the first half. It is unclear how long he will… October 18, 2020 In "Sports"