Chief Charles Idahosa is a chieftain of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) and former Commissioner for Information in Edo State. In this interview, he speaks on the crisis rocking the Edo State chapter of the party and the way forward. ANAYO EZUGWU reports   The Chairman of the Edo State chapter of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Anthony Aziegbemi, has petitioned the National Chairman of the party, Prince Uche Secondus, to stop Governor Godwin Obaseki from carrying out his alleged plan to dissolve the state executive.  They also accused him of causing problems in the party?  Were you surprised over this development?  I wasn’t surprised. I was present at the meeting they mentioned in the letter.  It is rather unfortunate that the state chairman of the party, who was present at the meeting went back to call another meeting of their own group and narrated to them what they wanted to hear.  Unfortunately, he didn’t give them the true picture of what happened. He claimed they were only three at the meeting and those who came with Obaseki were 10. That is not correct. Both sides had equal representations at the meeting. Five were from the other camp and five were with Obaseki.  The other three people, who were there is what we call ‘statutory members.’ These are the governor, deputy governor and Secretary to the State Government (SSG). They didn’t come as members of any group.  So, the five people who came from the old All Progressives Congress (APC) and the PDP people were equal. Unfortunately, Dan Orbih, the South- South National Vice-Chairman didn’t turn up for the meeting deliberately but we knew he was in town.  He knew that Tom Ikimi, a former Minister of External Affairs, Chief Mike Oghiadomhe, a former Chief of Staff to the President and former deputy governor of Edo for eight years has been completely ostracized.  They are broken into two. What the governor wanted to do was to balance it. That was why he called Orbih and others but they refused to come for the meeting.  Chief Lucky Igbinedion, a former governor of Edo State was invited to the meeting too but he called in and said he was in South Africa, so he couldn’t make it.  So, for the Edo PDP chairman to claim that they were ambushed at the meeting because they had just three members while the governor has 10 members with him is not correct.  What was the purpose of the meeting?  During the meeting, the governor said he has been unable to form his cabinet and he is not happy about it because the public is waiting. When he joined PDP, a lot of people came with him from APC. The state exco, local government chairmen and many people joined him in PDP.  The same Aziegbemi said immediately the governor joined PDP, they ran out of membership cards because over 120,000 people from APC joined them. They were even asking for more cards from Abuja.  These same people were shut out of power for 12 years in Edo State and were nowhere to be found. It was the havoc caused by Adams Oshiomhole who got power drunk and denied Obaseki the APC ticket that made us to end up in PDP. Most I joined the PDP as its foundation in 1998.  Most of the people calling the shots in PDP now, and who are talking rubbish were not in PDP when I was there. I was a leader in PDP. In 1998, I was a member of the National Committee that organised the convention in Jos, and which produced Chief Olusegun Obasanjo as PDP presidential candidate. Our anchor man was Amb. Yahaya Kwande. He was our coordinator and we stayed in his place in Jos two weeks ahead of the convention.  Emeka Ihedioha, Doyin Okupe, Chris Mamman and Onyema Ugochukwu were with me then. Coming back to Edo State that they are taking about, I organised the first primary in the state that took Senator Roland Owie and Idahosa to the House of Representatives in 1999 in the premises of Dr. Samuel Ogbemudia. So, this same way that you see them doing, trying to usurp power is exactly what drove us out of PDP in 2004.  I resigned as Commissioner in 2004 and joined Tom Ikimi, Lai Mohammed and other well-meaning Nigerians to form Advanced Congress of Democrats (ACD) with the late Alex Anielo as chairman. That party today is what has become APC.  They said most of you that joined PDP from APC refused to register at your wards. How true is that?  That was another lie from them. When Governor Obaseki was in APC, I said if he is forced out of the party, I will follow him to any party he goes to. I followed Obaseki to the PDP secretariat to pick his form.  The next day, I registered in my ward and the picture was everywhere. How can they now claim that we didn’t register in our wards and we have not been attending meetings? Since we joined PDP, we have been having problems.  All the people that came with us from APC are not holding any position. They said they have already constituted their exco, but what about our people that came? In other words, I Charles Idahosa cannot produce a councillor in my ward. The governor from Ward 4 in Oredo cannot produce a councillor because the delegates who will choose councillorship candidates are all PDP. No person, who came with Obaseki from APC to PDP can have any political ambition to be anything; that is why we are saying let’s harmonise. Funny enough, this thing has a precedent. Obaseki is not the first governor to leave APC for PDP.  When Governor Aminu Tambuwal left APC for PDP in Sokoto, they said ‘you are the governor, you are bringing us power.’ The PDP gave him a 60-40 sharing formula. That is 60 per cent of the executives from the ward and they will take 40 per cent. The same thing happened when Samuel Ortom left APC for PDP in Benue. But in the case of Edo, they are just greedy.  They did not come with a single House of Assembly member. Out of the 18 local governments in the state, they did not come with a single chairman. Out of the 192 wards, they did not have a single councillor and these were the issues I raised at that meeting. All these people came with Obaseki from APC to PDP. But Obaseki said we should carry everybody along and we said okay. At the end of the day, they are still refusing to let our people in and they keep saying we will bridge the gap.  We on our part said, let’s harmonise. If it is 60-40, 70-30 or 55-45 sharing formula, let’s agree. You can see the lame excuse they are giving. They are talking about Secretary to the State Government (SSG). Yet, this same people will come to government house and say we are not interested in SSG and chief of staff positions because they are personal to you.  Now, the governor said I want to form a cabinet, how do I do it? Chief Ikimi now said; if we say 60-40 sharing formula, if the governor takes his 60 per cent, how are we going to share the 40 per cent, because we have factions? In my local government, the PDP has three factions.  One single person will just handpick all the party executives and the rest will be looking.  So, we said enough is enough! We are going to write to the national leadership because the governor of the state by the PDP constitution is the leader of the party.  They should give us the sharing formula for harmonization and dissolve the exco, so that we can go for a fresh election.  Any of them that is holding current position can still contest but let us have a feeling that they were not chosen. What I have discovered is that some people will rather be king in hell than messengers in heaven. That was what we agreed at that meeting.  So, what is the way forward for Edo PDP?  They have written to the national body; we have also written to them to dissolve the exco and organise a fresh election. So, let the national body decide.  •Governor will be an asset to party –Atiku •His defection non-issue, says APC It was a new dawn for leadership and members of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) Edo State chapter as the state’s Governor, Mr. Godwin Obaseki, yesterday formally joined the party, after weeks of speculations and political horse… June 20, 2020 In "News" The Rivers State Governor, Nyesom Wike, Friday, warned the leaders of the Edo State chapter of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) that the upcoming election is a fight for the destiny of the Niger Delta region. Wike made this assertion during a meeting organised for leaders and elected representatives of… September 18, 2020 In "Politics" C risis looms in the Edo State chapter of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) over failure of the party’s leadership to convince other governorship aspirants to step down for Governor Godwin Obaseki ahead of the gubernatorial primaries slated for June 25.     Indication to this emerged yesterday as New… June 22, 2020 In "News"