The Minister of Youth and Sports Development Mr Sunday Dare has charged the newly Inaugurated Caretaker Committees of the 30 Sports Federation to be focused in the best interest of the nation.
Speaking during their inauguration in Abuja on Tuesday, the Minister said “The dissolution became necessary because of the expiration of your tenures.
It is also important because of the Tokyo Olympics which is less than 90 days away. This requires that all hands are on deck because continuity is necessary to ensure preparations for the Games are not hampered in any way. The Caretaker Committees were thus specially selected to reflect our aspirations towards podium appearances at the Tokyo Olympics.”
The Minister warned that he will not hesitate to remove any Caretaker Committee that works at cross purposes with the Federations aspirations.
“It is also important for the Caretaker Committees to know that your jobs terminate immediately after the Olympics as elections into the Federations will be guided by the constitutions and the Code of Governance All the Federations with qualifiers will get needed support. We don’t have all the money, but we have the commitment. Let us know what you need and we will support you all the way  …as Minister inaugurates Caretaker Committees Tuesday   The Minister of Youth and sports Development Mr Sunday Dare will on Tuesday May 4th inaugurate the Caretaker Committees of the 30 Sports Federations. The event which will be done virtually and physically will originate from the Moshood Abiola National Stadium, Abuja.  … May 4, 2021 In "Sports" Former Nigeria international and retired Director-General of the defunct National Sports Commission (NSC), Dr. Patrick Ekeji, has hailed the dissolution of the National Sports Federations by the Minister of Youth and Sports Development, Chief Sunday Dare.   The Sports Federations were dissolved Friday by the Sports Minister and caretaker committees… May 2, 2021 In "Sports" The Ministry of Youth Development and Sports on Friday announced the dissolution of all sports federations’ boards in preparation for the elections of new board members. In a statement issued on Friday by the Director of Federation, Elite Athletes in the ministry, Dr. Simon Ebhojaiye, caretaker committees were also announced… May 1, 2021 In "Sports"