Apparently upset by the negative reactions that greeted his recent meeting with some leaders of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in Edo State, where it was resolved that the leadership of the party from the ward to the state level would be dissolved to accommodate his loyalists who came with him from the All Progressives Congress (APC), Governor Godwin Obaseki may have beaten a retreat as he met with State Working Committee (SWC) in government house on Wednesday. The meeting, it was gathered, held in the newly renovated governor’s office where the governor was said to have expressed his unhappiness over the position of the SWC which he said was “too hard” on him. He was said to have appealed to them that contrary to insinuation, he is not taking them for granted and that he remained grateful to the PDP for giving him the platform for his re-election after falling out with his former party, the APC. The governor was said to have told the SWC members that he has been receiving calls from his colleague governors across the country and business associates who were expressing their concern that he was falling out with the party that brought him back to power so soon.  Supremacy battle in Ebonyi PDP after Umahi’s exit   The Ebonyi State chapter of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has been enmeshed in supremacy battle after the recent defection of Governor Dave Umahi to the All Progressives Congress (APC), UCHENNA INYA reports   Until November 17, the Peoples Democratic Party… December 2, 2020 In "Politics" The defection of Edo State Governor, Godwin Obaseki, to the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) on June 19, was one of the major victories in his political career. That move, which Obaseki even confessed, was a revival of his political career after his disqualification by the All Progressives Congress (APC) screening… July 4, 2020 In "News" Chris Nehikhare is the Publicity Secretary of the PDP in Edo State. He spoke with OJIEVA EHIOSUN on the September 19 election. Excerpts... The PDP is now in charge of Edo State. How can you convince the people to retain the party in power? This is going to be the… August 8, 2020 In "Politics"