 Lt. General Tukur Buratai (rtd), the immediate past Chief of Army Staff and Ambassador Designate, says the death of General Ibrahim Attahiru and other senior military officers came at a time successes were being made on countering surgency operations, urging the military to close ranks to preserve their legacy.
Buratai in his tribute to the late Lieutenant-General Ibrahim Attahiru described the incident as tragic to all Nigerians and peace-loving people, adding that Attahiru and the officers that died with him were top-level officers whose records of service were admirable.
He noted that the tragic incident deeply depresses him as it robbed us of the services of the Chief of Army Staff who had left no one in doubt as regards his decision to succeed in the various military undertakings across the country.
“He was at the verge of making the nation proud in the counterinsurgency and counterterrorism efforts when this tragedy occurred. I do not doubt his ability as he had served under me in various capacities and was well grounded for the job with active support and collaboration of his colleagues.
“I was deeply shocked and saddened by the news of the passing away of my immediate successor, Lt.-Gen. Ibrahim Attahiru, the Acting Chief of Military Intelligence, Acting Provost Marshal (Army), his Chief of Staff, the Aide-de-Camp and the Acting Deputy Director Finance in the office of the COAS, his Orderly, as well as the pilots and crew in an air crash on May 21 at Kaduna Airport,” he said.
Buratai however, urged the armed forces to close ranks and make sure that the legacy of the officers lives on by strengthening on the gains made in the various operations.
According to him, they gave their lives in the line of duty and patriotic service to the nation.
“My thoughts and prayers are with the families of these great heroes. May the Almighty Allah grant them eternal rest,” he said.  Ekweremadu, Ndume mourn COAS, others   President of the Senate, Ahmad Lawan, has expressed deep sadness over the tragic death of Lt. General Ibrahim Attahiru, and other military officers who died in an air crash, describing it as a national disaster of immense proportion that has thrown the entire nation… May 23, 2021 In "News" The nation was thrown into national mourning over the weekend, when a military aircraft Beachcraft 350, conveying the Chief of Army Staff, Lt-Gen. Ibrahim Attahiru, and 10 other senior military officers and crew members, crashed in Kaduna, killing all occupants onboard.   The tragedy of monumental proportions occurred barely four… May 23, 2021 In "News" Onyekachi Eze, Abuja The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has called for probe of military plane crashes in the country particularly the last two in which lives of senior military officers were lost. The party in a statement by its National Publicity Secretary, Kola Ologbondiuan, expressed sadness at the death of… May 22, 2021 In "News"