• Manchester United striker and ex-president discuss youth
• ‘When President Obama speaks, all you want to do is listen’ Marcus Rashford has spoken with former US President Barack Obama to discuss the power young people can have to make change in society.
Rashford, the Manchester United and England striker, met virtually with the 44th president of the United States in a Zoom conversation organised by Penguin Books, reports PA Media.
Their discussion focused on the importance of giving back to your local community and the positive impact of reading, as well as other themes from the former president’s memoir, A Promised Land. They also spoke about some of their shared experiences, including being raised by single mothers.
Rashford, 23, last year spearheaded a prominent campaign to tackle child food poverty in the UK during the coronavirus pandemic. It led to 1.7 million vulnerable children being supported by a £520m government scheme and other projects have helped deliver 130 million meals. He has also launched a food education and cooking project for children, “Full Time Meals”.
Obama said: “A lot of the young people I meet – including Marcus – they’re ahead of where I was when I was 23. They’re already making changes and being positive forces in their communities.”
The conversation, which was moderated by broadcaster and author June Sarpong, will be released in full on Penguin UK’s YouTube channel at 2pm on Friday.
Rashford said: “It’s quite surreal isn’t it? I’m sitting in my kitchen in Manchester, speaking to President Obama. But, immediately, he made me feel at ease.
“It wasn’t long before I realised just how aligned our experiences as children were in shaping the men you see today – adversity, obstacles and all. I genuinely enjoyed every minute of it. When President Obama speaks, all you want to do is listen.”  •As Man United, Chelsea clash in FA Cup semis It has been quite amazing the way Manchester United attack has flourished this term and to many watchers, English forward Marcus Rashford especially has been an ample example of how a player can develop under the weight of expectation and that… July 18, 2020 In "Back Page Columnist" Marcus Rashford repeated his late heroics against Paris St-Germain with a superb winner as Manchester United marked their return to the Champions League with a fine win at the home of last season's beaten finalists. Rashford's stoppage-time penalty sealed a famous victory at the Parc des Princes 18 months ago and… October 21, 2020 In "Sports" Former Manchester United manager Alex Ferguson has teamed up with Marcus Rashford to tackle child food poverty. United striker Rashford was awarded an MBE following his recent campaign which saw the government change their minds on providing free school meals for children during holidays. Now the 23-year-old has said… November 29, 2020 In "Sports"