The Federal University, Oye-Ekiti, Ekiti State (FUOYE), yesterday insisted that its former Registrar, Mr. Olatunbosun Odusanya, was duly relieved of his appointment over allegation of illegal recruitment of 337 staff and other misconducts. The university added that contrary to allegation of witch-hunt being spread about by the sacked registrar, termination of his appointment was carried out by the University Governing Council and not the management over sundry proven allegations of misconduct in accordance with Section 14(3) of the Regulations Governing Condition of Service of Senior Staff of the university. This was disclosed in a statement by the university’s Chief Information Officer, Foluso Ogunmodede. According to the statement, the Governing Council of the university, which considered and upheld reports of a Committee on Review of Appointments, Staff Disciplinary Committee of Council and some external members of council, said Odusanya was given fair hearing, hence, due process was strictly followed by the committee, which sat between 19th and 26th April, 2021.  The Governing Council of the Federal University, Oye-Ekiti (FUOYE), has announced the removal of the university’s Registrar, Mr. Olatunbosun Odusanya. This came a few days after the registrar was suspended over alleged misconduct. A statement yesterday cosigned by the Chief Information Officer and the Special Adviser on Media Matters to… April 29, 2021 In "News" The  management of the Federal University, Oye Ekiti (FUOYE) has  announced the suspension of the school's Registrar, Mr. Olatunbosun Odusanya over alleged misconduct.   A statement on Tuesday made available to journalists in Ado-Ekiti, by the Special Adviser on Media Matters to the Vice-Chancellor, Wole Balogun, disclosed that Odusanya was suspended by… April 20, 2021 In "Metro & Crime" Adewumi Ademiju, Ado-Ekiti The  Governing Council of the Federal University Oye-Ekiti (FUOYE) has announced  removal of the university's Registrar, Mr. Olatunbosun Odusanya. This is coming a few days after the Registrar was suspended over alleged misconduct. A statement on Wednesday, co-signed by  the Chief Information Officer and the Special… April 28, 2021 In "Education"