 Caleb Onwe, Abuja The Federal Capital Territory Administration( FCTA) has banned the traditional Eid congregational prayers and other activities that attract crowds.
The Administration said it’s decision was a proactive measure to prevent the third wave of COVID-19 which is already ravaging many countries.
This indication emerged on Tuesday after a meeting of FCT League of Imams Initiative, chaired by FCT Minister,  Malam Muhammad Bello.
The meeting, which had notable Islamic clerics and scholars, like Imam Dr. Tajudeen Adigun, was said to have been convened to evaluate the COVID-19 and other prevailing situations, in view of the Eid el-Fitr celebrations.
The Minister said: “There will be no Eid prayers at the National Eid Prayer Ground along the Umaru Musa Yar’adua Expressway (Airport Road).
“All worshippers are enjoined to hold Eid prayers outdoors within the premises of their neighborhood Juma’at mosques
“Indoor worship are to be limited to less than 50% of installed capacity. Religious authorities are advised to regulate the flow of people entering and exiting places of worship.
“All non-pharmaceutical intervention protocols of facial coverings, physical distancing and hand washing are to be observed. All other Eid celebrations and activities should be confined to homes as all  public parks, recreation and entertainment centers are to be closed.”  Two days to the celebration of the Eld el-Kabir by the Muslim faithful, the administration of the Federal Capital Territory (FCT) yesterday said it had shut the National Eid prayer ground along the Nnamdi Azikiwe Airport.   This is to prevent prayers there during the festivities. New Telegraph learnt that… July 29, 2020 In "Metro & Crime" Few days to the celebration of the Eld'el-Kabir by Moslem faithful,  the administration of the Federal capital Territory (FCT) on Tuesday said it had shut the National Eid Prayer Ground located along the Nnamdi Azikiwe Airport, banning any form of prayers there during the festivities. New Telegraph learnt that the… July 28, 2020 In "News" Kwara State government has announced the cancellation of the 2020 congregational Eid prayers across the whole state because of the huge numbers that are expected to gather for the special Eid prayers and the possibility of such gatherings leading to spike in COVID-19 cases and potential deaths. This decision was… July 24, 2020 In "Metro & Crime"