 A diesel-laden tanker exploded at Egbeda, Alimosho Local Government Area of Lagos in the early hours of Tuesday.
Investigation conducted by the state emergency team upon arrival at the scene revealed a fully loaded tanker with diesel had brakes failure and lost control.
It fell and exploded.
The fire burnt all night as firefighters battled to put it out.
Dr. Femi Oke-Osanyintolu, Director-General, Lagos State Emergency Management Agency (LASEMA) said that the tanker exploded around 1:18am.
According to him, the incident occurred at Banire Bus Stop, Egbeda inward Ikotun.
“Investigation conducted by the Team upon arrival at the scene revealed a fully loaded tanker with diesel had a break failure, lost control and fell off the road leading to an explosion and fire outburst.
“However, no casualties recorded nor any properties razed in the unfortunate inferno.
“The fire has been successfully subdued by men of the LASEMA LRU Fire service and LASG Fire service while dampening down is ongoing,” he said.  A branch of a new generation bank at Ademola Adetokunbo Crescent on Victoria Island, Lagos yesterday went up in flames. The fire consumed property believed to worth millions of naira. It was learnt that the fire broke out when a tanker carrying 33,000 litres of diesel burst into flames while… August 27, 2020 In "Metro & Crime" Muritala Ayinla There was apprehension and panic this morning at Ademola Adetokunbo Crescent, Victoria Island when fire gutted a new generation bank, destroying property worth millions of naira. New Telegraph learnt that a tanker loaded with 33,000 litres of diesel and with registration number AKD 637 XP and car,… August 26, 2020 In "Metro & Crime" •FRSC says hoodlums prevented rescuers reaching accident scene   A fuel laden tanker yesterday exploded at the Kara end of the Lagos- Ibadan Expressway, killing the driver and the motor boy. Thirty-five vehicles, including those parked on the highway were also burnt.   Although the Federal Road Safety Commission (FRSC)… November 8, 2020 In "Sunday Magazine"