The Lagos State Judicial Panel of Enquiry and Restitution for Victims of Special Anti-Robbery Squad (SARS) related abuses and the Lekki Tollgate Incident Saturday compensated two victims of police brutality with N11million. The widow of the late Rasheed Olanrewaju Kareem was awarded N10million for his extra-judicial death, while Yinka Austin Adebayo got N1million for torture at the Police’s hands.  The latest figures raise the total compensations to N68.25 million for 12 petitioners. For the late Rasheed Olanrewaju Kareem, petitioner, his brother Olalekan Bankole testified on February 16, that the deceased was shot in the head by police officers from the Area C Command in Surulere. The incident was said to have occurred on October 21, 2020, during the #EndSARS protests.  The panel found that the police authorities failed to investigate the unjustified shooting of unarmed persons at the Tejuosho and Aralile areas of Surulere in Lagos, as well as the extrajudicial killing of the deceased and other persons.  The Chairman of the panel, Justice Doris Okuwobi recommended that “the Nigeria Police Force carries out an independent investigation into the sporadic and deliberate shooting, to confirm who carried out the shooting” and prosecute them accordingly.  In Adebayo’s petition, the panel awarded him N1m as compensation for his unlawful arrest, torture, confiscation of his car by the police between September 28 and 30, 2017. The police, the panel held, did not controvert Adebayo’s testimony.  A widow and wife of a slain policeman, Mrs Olamide Erinfolami Bankole, Friday accused the police of killing her husband, late Inspector Ayodeji Erinfolami Bankole, during the #EndSARS protest. According to Mrs Bankole, her husband was murdered by the police while trying to quell the #EndSARS protest. While led in… December 18, 2020 In "Metro & Crime" The Lagos State Judicial Panel of Restitution and Inquiry set up to investigate cases of police brutality, especially involving officers of the defunct Special Anti-Robbery Squad (SARS), has begun awarding compensations to petitioners. In a petition involving Mrs. Kudirat Adebayo Abayomi, who was killed by a police stray bullet in… February 20, 2021 In "News" The Lagos State Judicial Panel of Restitution and Inquiry set up to investigate cases of police brutality especially involving officers of the now-defunct Special Anti-Robbery Squad (SARS), has begun awarding compensations to petitioners. In a petition involving Mrs. Kudirat Adebayo Abayomi, who was killed by a police stray… February 19, 2021 In "Metro & Crime"