 The U.S. Justice Department on Friday released a proposed rule that would crack down on self-assembled “ghost guns,” a measure promised by the White House last month as part of a larger effort to curb mass shootings and community bloodshed.
The Justice Department issued a proposed regulation that would require retailers to run background checks before selling kits that contain the parts necessary for someone to readily make a gun at home. It will take effect later this year unless it is held up by a court challenge, reports Reuters.
The proposed rule would also require the inclusion of serial numbers on parts used in easy-to-build firearm kits, making it easier for law enforcement to track guns used in violent crimes.
The rule marks the first time since 1968 that the definition of “firearm” has been updated in the U.S. code, the Justice Department said in a press release.
Attorney General Merrick Garland said in a statement that the proposed rule “would help keep guns out of the wrong hands and make it easier for law enforcement to trace guns used to commit violent crimes.”
Gun-control advocates have long said ghost guns allow someone to obtain a firearm without having to go through the background checks they would otherwise face.
On April 8, President Joe Biden called on the Justice Department to propose a new rule on ghost guns within 30 days.
“The parts have no serial numbers, so when they show up at a crime scene, they can’t be traced,” Biden said on April 28 in his first address to Congress. “The buyers of ghost gun kits aren’t required to pass a background check. Anyone from a criminal to a terrorist could buy this kit and, in as little as 30 minutes, put together a lethal weapon. But not anymore.”
The Justice Department’s proposed rule will be entered into a federal journal on Friday, kicking off a review period for public comment that could last two months.  A U.S. federal judge said that the Justice Department broke the law when it rescheduled the execution of the only woman on federal death row last month, potentially pushing her execution into Democratic President-elect Joe Biden's new administration. U.S. District Judge Randolph Moss on Thursday vacated an order from… December 26, 2020 In "News" Small drones will be allowed to fly over people and at night in the United States, the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) said on Monday, a significant step toward their use for widespread commercial deliveries. The FAA said its long-awaited rules for the drones, also known as unmanned aerial vehicles,… December 29, 2020 In "Business" A New Zealand court has sentenced a man who killed 51 people at two mosques to life in prison without parole, the first person in the country's history to receive this sentence. Australian Brenton Tarrant, 29, admitted to the murder of 51 people, attempted murder of another 40 people… August 27, 2020 In "News"