 A Confederation of African Football executive committee meeting in Kigali on Saturday chose Moroccan city Casablanca to host the 2020-2021 CAF Champions League final.
The July 17 showpiece of African club football could feature a local side as Wydad Casablanca appear the strongest team in one half of the knockout draw. The two-time champions forced a 1-1 draw at Mouloudia Alger of Algeria on Friday, making them favourites to reach the semi-finals, where they are likely to meet Kaizer Chiefs of South Africa.
Wydad hammered Chiefs 4-0 when they met in Group C and although the Moroccans lost the second meeting 1-0 they sent a reserve team to South Africa to avoid Covid-19 quarantine restrictions. The July 10 final of the CAF Confederation Cup — the African equivalent of the UEFA Europa League — will be staged in Cotonou, the commercial capital of Benin.
Stade Mohammed V in Casablanca, the centrepiece of a multi-sport complex, can accommodate 67,000 spectators while the Stade l’Amitie General Mathieu Kerekoua in Cotonou has a 20,000 capacity. Egypt was selected to host the first eight-team CAF Women’s Champions League tournament during the second half of this year on dates to be announced.  The 2020 African Nations Championship and the 2021 Africa Cup of Nations have both been postponed by a year CAF has announced. The measures are among a raft of decisions affecting CAF competitions taken at a meeting of the Executive Committee of Africa’s football governing body on Tuesday. CAF… June 30, 2020 In "Sports" Enyimba of Nigeria are one of the three former African club champions drawn together in Group A of this season’s Confederation Cup. The two other elite league winners with Enyimba are Orlando Pirates and Algeria’s Entente Setif. South Africa’s Orlando Pirates won the continental title in 1995 while  Entente… February 22, 2021 In "Sports" …beat Wydad 3-1 in Cairo to reach final   Al Ahly manager Pitso Mosimane has urged his team not to get ahead of themselves as they move to within touching distance of a record-extending ninth CAF Champions League title.   Ahly secured a 3-1 (5-1 on aggregate) win over Wydad… October 26, 2020 In "Sports"