Concerned about the backlog of pending applications, the Federal Government has announced the immediate suspension of processing of new passport applications in offices nationwide. Minister of Interior, Ogbeni Rauf Aregbesola, who gave the directive in a circular dated May 17, said the development would enable the Nigeria Immigration Service (NIS), clear all pending applications. The circular, which was signed by Deputy Comptroller-General of Immigration, AB Yerima, read in part: “I am directed to convey to you the directive of the Honourable Minister of Interior on the suspension of processing of new passport applications in all passport offices nationwide. “This directive, which comes into effect from today 17th May 2021, has become necessary to allow enough time to clear all backlog of applications sequel to the commencement of the new passport regime on 17 June, 2021. “Consequent upon the foregoing, all PCOs are, therefore, directed to utilize this period, 17th May, 2021 to 31st May, 2021 to ensure that all backlogs are produced and handed over to Command Comptroller’s for collection by members of the public concerned. “Accordingly, new application for passports, whether fresh renewal, are by this circular, suspended till 1st June, 2021. Ensure wide circulation and strict compliance”.  Nigeria’s Foreign Missions ought to be a bastion and second home to citizens in the Diaspora, but the reverse is the case. From the United States to Germany, Canada, United Kingdom and Malaysia, it is tales of woes, disappointment, corruption, ill-treatment and poor services rendered to Nigerians by foreign missions.… December 31, 2020 In "Politics" As part of measures to ensure "seamless, transparent, as well as according human dignity to applicants and fulfilling citizenship integrity", the Federal Government has said "it is turning around the entire passport application process by the Nigeria Immigration Service (NIS) to six weeks". The Minister of Interior, Ogbeni Rauf Aregbesola,… April 23, 2021 In "News" *To withhold passports of persons arriving from abroad as airports open Nigeria has said it would enforce the principle of reciprocity in granting permission to airlines to resume operations in the country as it opens its airspace. What it means is that only airlines from countries that allow flights from… August 20, 2020 In "Aviation"