The Arewa Consultative Forum (ACF) has called for an open and transparent investigation into the circumstances and ownership of the arrested helicopter allegedly supplying arms and food to criminals.  ACF, in a statement made available to newsmen Monday night in Kaduna, noted that the investigation might go a long way in “righting our security challenges.”  The statement signed by Emmanuel Yawe, National Publicity Secretary of the Forumsaid: “We hope the result of this investigation will clear whatever doubts there are about righting our security challenges.”  ACF also said the investigation has become pertinent in view of what it called the scandalous accusations that a former head of state is the owner of the helicopter, an allegation he has denied.  The Forum said: “Early in March this year at the height of the kidnap of students of the Jangebe Government Girls Secondary School, in Zamfara State, the Federal Government slammed a ban of flights over the state.  “In reaction, our National Chairman Chief Audu Ogbe issued a statement calling for the ban to be extended to states such as Borno, Taraba, Benue, Yobe where there were rumours that arms, foodstuffs and other supplies were being dropped for bandits by a mysterious helicopter.  “Today, there are various accounts that a helicopter that has been used to drop supplies for the criminals has been arrested.  The accounts are rather confusing with the rather scandalous accusation that a former Head of State, General Abubakar Abdulsalami is the owner of the aircraft. “The general has since dismissed the rumour that he owns it. We have diligently followed these sordid revelations in the media.” Consequently, ACF said it: “Is convinced that there is need for an open and transparent investigation on the orders of President, Commander-in-Chief, Muhammadu Buhari.”  The Arewa Consultative Forum (ACF) yesterday commended the Governor of Zamfara State, Bello Mutawalle, for taking a bold step of ‘naming those behind banditry in the state.’     ACF in a statement said they were happy that following its call on the governor to match action with words, he… March 9, 2021 In "News" …says ‘if we don't save the North now, we'll lose it’ We are faced with the problem of killings day and night which are greater than ever, except during the civil war. We have not faced this type of challenge before: killings day and night. At no time has life… August 20, 2020 In "News" Says attacks on Fulanis, capable of destabilising Nigeria   The Apex Northern socio-cultural and political organisation, the Arewa Consultative Forum, (ACF) on Saturday warned that the attacks by Yoruba youths on the Chief of Fulanis in Oyo State, was capable of leading to another Civil War in the country.  … January 24, 2021 In "News"