The Ijaw Nation yesterday called on President Muhammadu Buhari to do everything humanly possible to forestall a second wave of militancy in the Niger Delta region.  Speaking through the National Coordinator of Center for Peace and Environmental Justice (CEPEJ) Chief Sheriff Mulade, the Ijaws expressed concern over the high level of insecurity in Nigeria following the reported threats which indicate that failure to address the fundamental issues in the region might lead to another round of militancy which could be extremely disastrous to the nation’s economy, as many aggrieved people are looking for avenues to vent their anger.  They called on the Federal Government to take urgent steps towards curbing the rising spate of insecurity ravaging the nation, leading to increasing poverty and hunger, and appealed to President Muhammadu Buhari to adopt proactive measures to reduce unemployment and mitigate the prevailing economic downturn in the country.  They noted that the prevailing harsh economic situation in the region and in the country, requires a very pragmatic approach to deal with it. Mulade also stressed the need to put measures in place to eradicate poverty, and that such measures should be publicised through very effective public awareness campaigns.  He, however, appealed to Nigerians to be patient with President Buhari and the Federal Government to enable them find the best ways out of the nation’s security challenges.  He implored Nigerians to give maximum support to government in terms of sharing accurate and timely information with relevant authorities so as to overcome the security problems.  He further prayed for the repose of the souls of the late Army Chief of Staff, Lt General Ibrahim Attahiru and 10 other military personnel that lost their lives in last Friday’s air mishap.  “We commiserate with their families and loved ones. May God give their families and Nigerians the strength to bear the loss which is very colossal,” he said.  The Ijaw Nation Monday called on President Muhammadu Buhari to do everything humanly possible to forestall a second wave of militancy in the Niger Delta region. Speaking through the National Coordinator of Center for Peace and Environmental Justice (CEPEJ) Chief Sheriff Mulade, the Ijaws expressed concern over the high level… May 24, 2021 In "News" A prominent leader of Ijaw nation and GMD/CEO, Tamfel Global Resource, Julius Babogha, yesterday blamed the underdevelopment of the Niger Delta on the leaders of the region for failure to attract development to the area despite holding sensitive positions in the government. Babogha, who disclosed this while addressing journalists, however,… December 31, 2020 In "News" The Federal Government has raised the alarm of possible resurgence of militancy in the Niger Delta region at a time it said the security situation in the country was critical.   Minister of Defence, Maj-Gen. Salihu Magashi (rtd), expressed the fear at a National Defence and Security Summit organised by… March 23, 2021 In "News"