Ka d u n a – b a s e d Islamic cleric, Sheikh Ahmad Gumi, yesterday insisted that engaging with bandits who are killing and kidnapping people across the country remains the best option to ending banditry in the country.  Speaking at a reception he organised for the release 27 Students of the Federal College of Forestry Mechanization, Afaka Kaduna yesterday, Gumi who has been in the forefront of negotiating with bandits said he wants the cooperation of the Federal, state and local government councils towards ending the insecurity.  The event which was held at the Hall of the Sultan Bello Mosque, Kaduna had in attendance Christian and Muslim clerics, parents of the abducted 39 students and the students themselves.  Speaking at the event, Gumi said: “My appeal to government is to engage with the bandits so that the bandits can abandoned their ways. They are already showing signs that they are ready.  “They have grievances which are not part of me, which I think if we come together we can cure this menace in a very short time.”  ...says they're working to secure release of Greenfield varsity students Parents of the kidnapped Afaka students yesterday paid a thank you visit to the home of Sheikh Ahmad Gumi for his role in securing their release. The parents were led by their Chairman and Secretary, Usman Abdullahi and Friday Sanni.… May 7, 2021 In "News" A former Provost Marshal of the Nigeria Army, Brig. Gen Idada Ikponmwen (rtd), has advised the Federal Government to caution the popular Kaduna-based Islamic cleric, Sheikh Ahmad Abubakar Gumi, over his romance with armed bandits and his quest for a ‘blanket amnesty’ for them. Ikponmwen, a security strategist and lawyer,… February 28, 2021 In "News" • We want our members released –Bandits The Secretary to the Government of Niger State (SSG), Ahmed Ibrahim Matane and foremost Islamic scholar, Sheikh Ahmad Gumi, yesterday called on commanders and members of armed bandits, who abducted Students of Government Science College, Kagara and Passengers of Niger State Transport Authority,… February 20, 2021 In "News"