 German sportswear company Adidas (ADSGn.DE) raised its 2021 sales outlook on Friday, saying it expects strong demand for new products despite ongoing lockdowns in Europe, supply chain challenges and political tensions.
Adidas said it now expects sales to grow at a high-teens percentage rate in 2021, compared to the forecast it gave in March for growth of a mid to high teens rate, with a jump of around 50% expected in the second quarter, Reuters reports.
Shares in Adidas were up 3.2% in pre-market trade at brokerage Lang & Schwarz.
Brands including Adidas and rivals Nike (NKE.N) and Puma faced online attacks in China in March over statements about their sourcing of cotton from Xinjiang after reports of human rights abuses against Uyghur Muslims. read more
Adidas did not directly mention that issue, beyond saying its new outlook took into account the geo-political situation. However, it did say that it had seen sales jump 156% in greater China in the first quarter, a year after the pandemic hit there.
Puma said last month it expects a consumer backlash against Western brands in China and congestion at ports to hit its sales though it gave an upbeat outlook for 2021 following a strong first quarter. read more
Adidas said first-quarter sales rose 20% to 5.268 billion euros ($6.35 billion), ahead of average analyst consensus for 5 billion, while net income from continuing operations jumped to 502 million euros.
The company stuck to its forecast for 2021 net income from continuing operations to rise to between 1.25 billion and 1.45 billion euros.  BRIGHT FUTURE The real sector is expected to continue to benefit from the current low interest rate environment to refinance the loans more cheaply   Following strong fundamentals of several quoted companies on the Nigerian capital market, analysts at Cowry Asset Management Limited have projected sustained positive outlook for… January 18, 2021 In "Business" Prediction   Inflation hit 12.40% in May 2020   Citing what it describes as “demand and supply shocks” from the Coronavirus (Covid-19) pandemic, Pricewaterhouse Coopers(PwC) Nigeria has said that the country’s inflation rate is likely to continue its upward trend for some time to come   The firm made the… July 7, 2020 In "Business" Leading credit rating agency, S&P Global Ratings (previously Standard & Poor's), has affirmed its 'B-/B' long and short-term sovereign credit ratings on Nigeria, with a stable outlook. The rating agency also affirmed its long and short-term Nigeria national scale ratings at 'ngBBB/ ngA-2'. In its latest report on Nigeria obtained… September 4, 2020 In "News"