 President Muhammadu Buhari has reconvened the meeting of the National Security Council, which started on May 30, at the Presidential Villa, Abuja.
The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN), reports that the meeting was called by the president to continue deliberations on issues of national security concern.
Those in attendance at Tuesday’s meeting include Vice-President Yemi Osinbajo, Secretary to the Government of the Federation, Boss Mustapha and Chief of Staff to the President, Professor Ibrahim Gambari.
Others are the Minister of Defence, Maj.-Gen. Bashir Magashi (rtd) and the National Security Adviser to the President, Maj.- Gen. Babagana Monguno (rtd), as well as the acting Inspector General of Police, Usman Baba.
The Chief of Defence Staff, Gen. Lucky Irabor, Chief of Army Staff; Lt.-Gen. Ibrahim Attahiru, Chief of Naval Staff; Vice Admiral Awwal Zubairu, and Chief of Air Staff, Air Marshal Isiaka Amoo, are also in attendance at the crucial meeting.  Top (pix: buhari, Osinbajo with service Chiefs) President Muhammadu Buhari is currently presiding over Security Council meeting at the Council Chamber, Presidential Villa, Abuja. In attendance are the Vice President, Prof. Yemi Osinbajo, the Chief of Staff to the President, Professor Ibrahim Gambari, the Secretary to the Government of the… August 4, 2020 In "News" The President Muhammadu Buhari, and the nation’s security chiefs are currently meeting at the Presidential Villa, Abuja. Relevant ministers are also attending the National Security Council meeting. Security chiefs in attendance include the Chief of Defence Staff, General Gabriel Olonisakin; Chief of Army Staff, Lt. Gen. Tukur Buratai; Chief… November 17, 2020 In "News" President Muhammadu Buhari has charged the newly appointed Service Chiefs to brace up for the responsibilities of safeguarding Nigeria's territorial integrity, stressing that the country is currently in a state of emergency. Buhari gave the charge during his inaugural meeting with the Service Chiefs yesterday at the Presidential Villa, Abuja.… January 28, 2021 In "News"