Yoruba nation activist, Sunday Adeyemo, popularly known as Sunday Igboho has said that there may be no elections in 2023 should the current spate of insecurity persists.  Igboho said this Saturday in Osogbo the Osun State capital, when the agitators of the Yoruba nation agitators under the aegis of Omo Oduduwa converged on the city demanding secession.  Speaking, Igboho said “nobody can cause me to fret and nobody can arrest me. We don’t need any government again, we want the Yoruba Nation. What they have done is enough we don’t want to have anything to do with one Nigeria again. “We don’t need any politicians again.  There shall be no election in Yoruba land. The federal government thought we are joking about leaving Nigeria. “We are determined to achieve the Yoruba Nation.  We are blessed with crude oil, gold, precious stones and other mineral resources, unfortunately, the Fulanis are getting the money and use it for the north and impoverish and enslave the Yorubas. They even made a train from their region to Niger republic.  We are no longer slaves. “Yoruba must unite to end this impunity. We must be at peace with each other to end this suffering. The government is thieves, they are cheating us. They even lied against Osun State Governor, Adegboyega Oyetola that he has directed them not to come to his state.  Oyetola is a good perfect man. He gave us the security to protect us and prevent miscreants from infiltrating our rally. He did not direct them to arrest us.  “The OPC members that were held in connection with the arrest of Isikilu Wakili must be released, else there will be a massive protest in the country.  I give the Oyo State government and FG a week ultimatum to release the OPC members,” Igboho added.  Security challenges, secessionist agitations and restructuring are some of the factors threatening the 2023 general election, writes ONYEKACHI EZE   The revelations at the public hearing organised by the Senate Joint Committee on Judiciary, Human Rights and Legal Matters, Navy and Marine Transport, on Firearms Act 2004 (Amendment) Bill 2021… April 25, 2021 In "Politics" Agitation against killing, kidnapping, robbing and raping of innocent people in Oyo, particularly, Ibarapa zone of the state, reached an unbearable crescendo last week when civilian self- help was introduced to nip it in the bud since it appeared the government was helpless. A youthful Yoruba defender and agitator for… February 3, 2021 In "City Life" …it's not in our best interest –YCE The call for secession of the Yoruba Nation from Nigeria by the self-acclaimed Yoruba activist, Sunday Adeyemo, popularly known as Sunday Igboho, is tearing the region apart, with opinion divided over the move. Igboho had, a week ago, declared Yoruba as a separate… March 25, 2021 In "News"