The Deputy Chairman, House Committee on Air Force in the House of Representatives, Abass Adigun, has revealed that the rate of insurgency and banditry ravaging the country would soon be nipped in the bud as seven of the 12 Super Tuccano Air Force aircraft ordered and purchased by the Federal Government from the United States of America would arrive the country by July. The former officer of the US Navy, who is representing Ibadan North East/ South East Federal Constituency in the lower chamber of the National Assembly said Nigeria had paid for the procurement of the 12 sophisticated aircraft since 2018 through the Defence Ministry to utterly crush bandits in the country. He spoke with Saturday Telegraph in Ibadan yesterday after he had empowered about 1,000 of his constituents with cash and working tools totalling about N900m. He distributed the following items: 65 grinding machines, 30 motorcycles, 35 hair dryers, 35 sewing machines, 10 generators. He also empowered the South East and North East markets traders in Owode and Iso Apo Ojaba, as well as, Basorun and Oranyan with N500, 000 each. Two brand new mobile Ambulances that cost about N25m each were also donated for the healthcare of his constituents. Noting that he and five other government officials will be travelling to the US next week to inspect the aircraft in preparation for their arrival in Nigeria. He said: “One of the advantages of the Super Tuccano aircraft is that it flies high and still meets the target unlike the other aircraft that we have in Air Force. So I believe if we can be able to get those Super Tuccano to Nigeria, that will give us opportunities of overcoming our security challenges. “I’m very sure that this one will help Nigeria government to defeat all these bandits and others in the North West, North Central, South East and everywhere in Nigeria, because we have criminal issues, everywhere in Nigeria today.   The Nigerian Air force (NAF), yesterday, said that it was expecting delivery of 19 additional aircrafts in the fight against insecurity in the North East. The Chief of Air Staff, Air Marshal Sadique Abubakar, disclosed this during the 2021 Budget defence before the Senate Committee on Air Force, which took… November 11, 2020 In "News" ...pilots undergoing training The Presidency has disclosed that the 12 Tucanos fighter jets ordered by the Federal Government from the United States of America (USA) would arrive the country by the middle of July this year. Senior Special Assistant to President Muhammmadu Buhari, Malam Garba Shehu, made the disclosure in… March 19, 2021 In "News" ...pilots undergoing training Lawrence Olaoye, Abuja The Presidency has disclosed that the 12 Tucanos fighter jets ordered by the Federal Government from the United States of America (USA) would arrive the country by the middle of July this year. Senior Special Assistant to President Muhammmadu Buhari, Malam Garba Shehu,… March 18, 2021 In "News"