*Says we can’t afford to fail 200m Nigerians The Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC) has kicked off construction work in the Port Harcourt Refinery rehabilitation project with a firm commitment not to fail Nigerians. A statement by the Group General Manager, Group Public Affairs Division of the NNPC, Dr. Kennie Obateru, quoted the NNPC Chief Operating Officer, Refineries & Petrochemicals, Engr. Mustapha Yakubu, as saying that everything was being done to ensure that the project is delivered hitch-free and on schedule. Speaking at the Technical Kick-off Meeting for the project, which held at the Port Harcourt Refinery Complex, Alesa Eleme, Rivers State, Engr. Yakubu said everything about the project had been carefully worked out to ensure that the target of at least 90 per cent refining capacity is achieved when operational. “It must be hitch-free and that is why we are engaging the host communities appropriately. “200 million Nigerians are looking up to us and we can’t afford to fail. We’ve been on this journey since 2019,” he said. The COO disclosed that the project would require 3,000 workers at the peak of activities, stressing that out of that number there would be only 70 expatriates while the balance would be sourced locally in line with the local content policy. He expressed gratitude to the Federal Government for approving $1.5 million for the project. Speaking earlier via a message delivered on his behalf by the Chief Financial Officer of the Corporation, Mr. Umar Ajiya, the Group Managing Director of NNPC, Mallam Mele Kyari, assured Nigerians that the Port Harcourt Refinery Company (PHRC) would roar back to life on or before April 5, 2023, when repairs would have been completed on the old refinery also known as Area 5. He said the target was to fix the old refinery first so that local refining can resume as soon as possible, adding that NNPC management would do everything to support the contractor, Maire Technimont SPA, to ensure prompt delivery of the project. He said: “We are happy we have the contractor onboard. With strong collaboration of all parties involved, we will achieve the desired results. “We have both government and private sector financing. We have the finance ministry, NEITI, labour unions and other stakeholders on board this project. “They want to see transparency so they can report same to Nigerians and this is one of the most transparent processes ever.” In his presentation, the Managing Director of PHRC, Engr. Ahmed Dikko, said that all the process plants have been made hydrocarbon-free to enable the contractor carry out the rehabilitation work safely. On his part, the representative of Maire Technimont SPA, Mr. Masu Alberto, said that the rehabilitation journey started in 2017 with integrity test of the refinery. “In 2019, we did work on it and then now. We’re deploying a good number of engineers”, he added.   ...Says project'll generate 3,000 jobs The Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC), has commenced construction work to rehabilitate the Port Harcourt Refinery. This was possible following the Federal Government's approval of $1.5 million for the rehabilitation project. Making a firm commitment not to fail Nigerians, the NNPC Chief Operating Officer, Refineries… May 7, 2021 In "Business" The approval of $1.5 billion by the Federal Executive Council (FEC) for the rehabilitation of the 210,000 barrels per day capacity Port Harcourt Refinery has generated various reactions. ADEOLA YUSUF, who takes another look at the issue, reports how trust deficit in the industry impacted the way many perceived the… March 30, 2021 In "Business" •Nigerians suffer despite huge spending on unproductive refineries •Afreximbank approves $1bn loan for P’Harcourt refinery’s repair • Why Nigerians must support NNPC’s planned $1.5bn on PH refinery –Kyari   Nigerians are currently bracing up for an increase in the prices of Premium Motor Spirit (PMS) otherwise known as petrol. An… March 28, 2021 In "Business"