 The Nigerian Army says it has carried out joint clearance operation with the Department of State Services (DSS) and the Nigerian Security and Civil Defence Corps (NSCDC) and killed seven operatives of the Eastern Security Network (ESN) in Rivers community.
The army also said that it arrested five of operatives of ESN, an armed wing of the proscribed Indigenous People Of Biafra (IPOB), while arms and ammunition were recovered from them.
The army in a statement on Thursday night said the operation took place at about 6:15pm.
The statement read: “6 Div in conjunction with Keystone, DSS and NSCDC led by Brigadier-General MD Danja conducted clearance/raid operations at suspected IPOB/ESN camp in Agbochia Forest along Pipelines Road Ogali/ Kom-Kom boundary between Eleme and Oyigbo Local Government Area of Rivers State.
“During the clearance/raid Operations, the team came in contact with the IPOB/ESN members. However, during the firefight, 7 IPOB/ESN members were neutralized and 5 suspects were arrested.
“Items recovered during the clearance/raid on IPOB/ESN camp included two  AK 47 rifles, two G3 rifles, one locally made machine gun and one G3 magazine. Also recovered included three rounds of 7.62mm special, 10 rounds 7.62mm x 51mm NATO, one x cutlass, five Baofeng handheld radios with chargers, 10 black barretts.”  •Commander is a terrorist, says Army     Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB) has blamed Governor Hope Uzodinma of Imo state for the killing of the unit Commander of the Eastern Security Network (ESN) simply known as Ikonso. Ikonso was killed around 4am on Saturday by a joint security team.… April 25, 2021 In "News" ...says 4 officers killed during operation   The Nigerian Army has announced the killing of one Ikonson Commander, said to be the second-in-command in the hierarchy of the Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB). It, however, regretted that a Second Lieutenant, and three operatives of the Police Intelligence Response Team (IRT),… April 24, 2021 In "News" The Nigerian Army yesterday claimed that at least ninf suspected members of the Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB), as well as the Eastern Security Network (esw), were killed by security forces after a failed attempt on the Area Command and Police Station in Orlu Local Government Area of Imo State.… May 8, 2021 In "News"