Former Deputy Governor of Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN), Dr. Obadiah Mailafia, has lamented that the current massive pernicious business of kidnapping of students especially in the North will worsen the region’s retrogression and put its education in jeopardy.  About 1,500 students from various schools in Borno, Kaduna, Zamfara, Yobe, Katsina and Niger states, especially girls, had been abducted at various times between 2014 and 2021 by gunmen in exchange for ransom.  But Mailafia, in an interview with Sunday Telegraph stated that already the North is educationally disadvantaged and the current targeting of schools by terrorists, erroneously described as bandits, advances the philosophy of Boko Haram that Western education is forbidden.  He said: “The entire country has suffered from insecurity, including kidnapping and mayhem. But, if the truth be told, the North, especially Borno, Katsina, Birnin Gwari, Zamfara, Niger, and the rest, have suffered far more than the rest of the country.  “Of course, the whole thing was originally directed at the Middle Belt, particularly Benue, Plateau and Southern Kaduna. It was a calculated strategy of genocide and eliminationism based on ethnic and religious grounds.  And we haven’t seenthebackof themyet. TheNorthtandem  Biyi Adegoroye Former Deputy Governor of Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN), Dr. Obadiah Mailafia, has lamented that the current massive pernicious business of kidnapping of students especially in the North will worsen the region’s retrogression and put its education in jeopardy.  About 1,500 students from various schools in Borno, Kaduna, Zamfara, Yobe, Katsina and Niger states, especially girls, had been abducted at various times between 2014 and 2021 by gunmen in exchange for ransom.  But Mailafia, in an interview with Sunday Telegraph stated that already the North is educationally disadvantaged and the current targeting of schools by terrorists, erroneously described as bandits, advances the philosophy of Boko Haram that Western education is forbidden.  He said: “The entire country has suffered from insecurity, including kidnapping and mayhem. But, if the truth be told, the North, especially Borno, Katsina, Birnin Gwari, Zamfara, Niger, and the rest, have suffered far more than the rest of the country.  “Of course, the whole thing was originally directed at the Middle Belt, particularly Benue, Plateau and Southern Kaduna. It was a calculated strategy of genocide and eliminationism based on ethnic and religious grounds. And we haven’t seenthebackof themyet. TheNorthtandem   In the build up to the 2015 general elections, Nigerians were upbeat that the insurgency which permeated and pervaded the North Eastern part of the country would soon become history if the then opposition All Progressives Congress (APC), won the election.   It was with this enthusiasm they voted massively… March 21, 2021 In "Feature" ...as NUT says out of school children may increase   There are indications teachers may be forced to embark on a national protest and eventually strike, if governments at all levels continue to treat the rising cases of attacks on schools, the kidnappings of students and teachers with levity.  … March 21, 2021 In "News" A children’s book author, Mr. Anote Ajeluorou, has lamented increasing rate at which school children were being abducted in northern states of Niger, Zamfara, Katsina and Kaduna. According to him, the ugly trendmustbehaltedatoncesoas not to truncate the education of theNigerianchildwhileblaming PresidentMuhammaduBuhariledadministrationforthewoeful state of affairs in the country, arguing that never… March 25, 2021 In "News"