The League Management Company has warned Kano Pillars not to travel to Katsina with their fans as the club face off against Katsina United in one of the Nigeria Professional Football League MatchDay 22 games to be played across various centres in the country.  In the last three seasons, there has been issues between the two club’s fans and the league body has decided to monitor the game this time around so as to forestall any crisis. In a circular by the LMC, it was revealed that no fan would be allowed to come to the stadium while all personnel would be accredited.  “Kano Pillars are strongly advised to inform their fans not to travel to Katsina for the match,” the statement said. “No vehicles or fans will be allowed into the main stadium gate.  “The match will hold behind closed doors and accreditation issued by LMC to all the teams with each allocated 20 players, seven officials and five directors. “Anyone without accreditation is advised to stay away from the venue of the match, the Muhammadu Dikko Stadium in Katsina.”  Charles Ogundiya   The Nigeria Professional Football League (NPFL), will resume this weekend after their midseason break.   The resumption was postponed twice but the League Management Company(LMC) has announced that the MatchDay 20 would be played this weekend. According to the source, the LMC decided to continue after meeting… May 9, 2021 In "Sports" Since last year, the career of Eagles skipper Ahmed Musa has been hanging without a club after he left his Saudi Arabian side Al Nasr. We recall he made waves at CSKA Moscow and was a shining light in the Nigerian team at the Brazil 2014 World Cup. His two… April 28, 2021 In "Editorial" In the past months, stakeholders in sports have been calling for the return of sporting events after over six months break as a result of the COVID-19 outbreak. Gradually, recent events have shown that sport is fully back in the country. The Presidential Task Force on COVID- 19 had earlier… November 14, 2020 In "Sports"