For popular Lagos-based politician who doubles at the Special Adviser to Lagos state governor, Babajide Sanwo-Olu on Drainages and Water Resources, Engineer Joe Igbokwe, the just concluded month of April was one that had a number of celebration lined up for his household.
The first event in the said month that opened the door of celebration in the household of the Igbokwes was the wedding anniversary of their patriarch and matriarch.
It was 30 years that Joe and his beautiful wife, Grace, had been married. Of course, not an elaborate bash was thrown but certainly such a significant and special day could have slipped by without making a memory of it.
The next celebration to knock on their door was the birthday anniversary of apple of the eye of Engineer Joe, Dr. Mrs Grace Igbokwe.
As it is a tradition for him, Joe didn’t fail to celebrate his adorable wife.
To show their love was made in heaven and their destinies interwoven, the next round of celebration in the same month of April was the birthday anniversary of the vocal and articulate man of the house, Joe himself.
By virtual of his numerous affiliations and status, his birthday was widely celebrated as Governor Sanwo-Olu with a giant greeting card for the birthday boy, led pack of those who felicitated and identified with him from far and near.
What could be referred to as the icing on the cake was the book presentation Igbokwe did a day to his birthday at the latter days of the month.
Igbokwe, an author who had to his credit books like ‘IGBO: 25 Years After Biafra’, ‘Heroes of Democracy’ and one he co-authored, ‘The IBB Option’, did media presentation of his latest writing, ‘IGBO: 50 Years After Biafra’.
The new book that was presented to the media at Genesis Hotel, G.R.A Ikeja is an overview of what has happened to Ndigbos fifty years after the civil war.  Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu's Special Adviser on Drainages and Water Resources, Mr, Joe Igbokwe, has said he remains the apex leader of Igbo All Progressives Congress (APC) in Lagos State. This is just as he debunked reports that Governor Sanwo-Olu endorsed the lawmaker representing Oshodi/Isolo state constituency II, Hon, Jude Idimogu,… July 29, 2020 In "Politics" Ahead of the October 31 Lagos East Senatorial District by-election, the youth wing of Ndigbo in the All Progressives Congress (APC), has called for support for the ruling party in the state. The position became vacant following the death of Senator Bayo Osinowo on June 15. Speaking yesterday during an… September 4, 2020 In "Politics" In this report, ANAYO EZUGWU examines the leadership crisis rocking Ndigbo in the Lagos State chapter of the All Progressives Congress (APC) A house divided against itself cannot stand, this is the situation of Ndigbo in APC, a group within the Lagos State All Progressives Congress (APC). The group is… March 18, 2021 In "Politics"