 Chelsea defeated Real Madrid to set up an all-English Champions League final against Manchester City on May 29.
After a 1-1 draw in Spain, Timo Werner, who earlier had a goal disallowed for offside, headed Chelsea ahead after Kai Havertz’s chip rebounded off the bar, reports the BBC.
Real’s Karim Benzema had a low strike and a header superbly saved by Blues goalkeeper Edouard Mendy.
But Chelsea dominated the second half and Mason Mount scored late on from close range for a 3-1 aggregate win.
The showpiece in Istanbul will be Chelsea’s third Champions League final, after they lost on penalties to Manchester United in 2008 and then beat Bayern Munich in another shootout in 2012.
Manchester City beat Paris St-Germain 2-0 in the second leg of their semi-final on Tuesday to seal a 4-1 aggregate victory. It will be the second all-English final in three seasons after Liverpool beat Tottenham 2-0 in 2019.
The Europa League final could also feature two English sides as Arsenal and Manchester United play the second leg of their semi-finals against Villarreal and Roma respectively on Thursday.
Thomas Tuchel was only appointed Chelsea manager in January after replacing the sacked Frank Lampard and has also taken the Blues to an FA Cup final against Leicester City on May 15.
RESULT
Chelsea 2 – 0 Real Madrid
(Agg 3-1)  Manchester City's Champions League last-16 second leg against Real Madrid will be played at Etihad Stadium. Governing body UEFA has confirmed all outstanding second-leg ties in the Champions League and Europa League will be held at the home teams' stadiums behind closed doors, reports the BBC. City host Real… July 9, 2020 In "Sports" Chelsea moved into the quarter-finals of the Champions League for the first time in seven years with a 3-0 aggregate win over Atletico Madrid. Having established a slender first-leg lead, Emerson Palmieri's late strike sealed the win after Hakim Ziyech had earlier put the hosts firmly in control with a low… March 18, 2021 In "Sports" Two legends of the beautiful game go head-to-head for a remarkable fourth time this season with Ole Gunnar Solskjaer and Frank Lampard in opposing dugouts while their respective teams, Manchester United and Chelsea do battle on the field of play.   This time around what is at stake is not… July 19, 2020 In "Sports"