Governor Oluwarotimi Akeredolu of Ondo State has disclosed that the reason why he was absent from the meeting held by the South-West leaders of the All Progressives Congress (APC) was due to a communication gap.  This was just as the governor threw his weight behind the outcome of the meeting held by the APC leadership.  Leaders of the party within the region had on Sunday met at the State House, Marina, Lagos where national issues, including insecurity and the agitation for the Yoruba nation by some individuals and groups in the region and the country, were delibrated upon.  With APC leaders and governors within the region present at the meeting, the duo of Akeredolu and his  Ekiti State counterpart, Kayode Fayemi were the only governors absent at the meeting.  According to Akeredolu, who is the Chairman of the South-West Governors’ Forum, lack of timeous communication aside mix up, were largely responsible for his inability to attend the meeting.  The governor, in a statement issued by his Chief Press Secretary, Richard Olatunde, nonetheless, described the parley as commendable and timely. “Governor Akeredolu would have loved to be present at the meeting for several reasons.  Far more important, the issues distilled bordered on the Southern Governors’ Asaba Declaration. “However, a slight mixup and communication gap had caused his unintended absence even as an earlier engagement had been fixed for Ibadan weeks before the meeting.  “Nonetheless, the resolutions reached by the revered leaders at the Lagos meeting are quite commendable and timely; the issues discussed are germane, and are clear indications that men of goodwill are working together to solve the Nation’s current challenges.  Adewale Momoh, Akure Governor Oluwarotimi Akeredolu of Ondo State has disclosed that the reason why he was absent from the meeting held by the South-West leaders of the All Progressives Congress (APC) was due to communication gap. This was just as the governor threw his weight behind the outcome… May 24, 2021 In "Metro & Crime" ...as Obasanjo, Mimiko meet An election monitoring group, Yiaga Africa Watching The Vote, has identified at least six Local Government Areas (LGs) in Ondo State as flashpoint during the October 10 governorship election holding in the state. This was contained in its first Pre-Election Observation (PREO) Report made available to… September 30, 2020 In "News" Hon. Victor Adekanye Olabimtan is the Special Adviser to Governor Oluwarotimi Akeredolu of Ondo State on Political Matters and Strategy as well as the Director-General of the Aketi/Ayedatiwa 2020 Campaign Organisation. In this chat with ADEWALE MOMOH, he spoke on the preparedness of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in the… September 26, 2020 In "Politics"