 The Nigerian military has warned politicians and military personnel against planning a coup.
The Defence Headquarters (DHQ) in a statement on Monday by Onyema Nwachukwu, its spokesman, said its attention has been drawn to comments by Robert Clarke, a senior lawyer, calling for power to be handed over to the military.
The military dissociated itself from the statement which it described as “anti-democratic” and said it remains loyal to the current administration.
“The attention of the military high command has been drawn to a statement purported to have been made by one Robert Clark (SAN), suggesting that current political leadership should hand over power to the military for the purpose of restructuring,” the statement said.
“The Nigerian Military wish to dissociate itself from such anti-democratic utterance and position. Let it be stated categorically that the Armed Forces of Nigeria remain fully committed to the present Administration and all associated democratic institutions. We shall continue to remain apolitical, subordinate to the Civil Authority, firmly loyal to the President, Commander-in-Chief of the Armed Forces of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, President Muhammadu Buhari and the 1999 Constitution as Amended.
“We shall continue to discharge our constitutional responsibilities professionally, especially in protecting the country’s democracy, defence of the territorial integrity of the country as well as protection of lives and properties of citizens.
The DHQ warned politicians and military personnel against contemplating the idea of a coup as the full wrath of the law will be brought on anyone caught doing so.
“The Military High Command wishes to use this opportunity to warn misguided politicians who nurse the inordinate ambition to rule this country outside the ballot box to banish such thoughts as the military under the current leadership remain resolute in the Defence of Nigeria’s Democracy and its growth,” it said.
“We also wish to remind all military personnel that it is treasonable to even contemplate this illegality. The full wrath of the law will be brought to bear on any personnel found to collude with people having such agenda. The current security challenges are not insurmountable.
“The Armed Forces of Nigeria in partnership with other other security Agencies are working assiduously to ameliorate the challenge. Nigeria will know peace again. PLEASE BE WARNED!”  Against seeming insecurity in the country, EMMANUEL ONANI writes that Armed Forces of Nigeria (AFN) are constitutionally rising against sundry security cases and providing aid to civil authority     The Armed Forces of Nigeria (AFN) is composed of three Services - the Nigerian Army (NA), Nigerian Navy (NN), as… November 15, 2020 In "Politics" The military high command has warned officers and personnel against acts of disloyalty, reminding them of the oath of allegiance and total loyalty to constituted authority in the country. While warning against acts that constituted mutiny, the Armed  Forces of Nigeria renewed its mandate "to suppress insurrection and act in… July 28, 2020 In "News" The military has vowed to deal with suspected thugs attacking peaceful protesters across some major cities in the country. This was as it vowed to frustrate attempts at undermining democratic governance in the country. Coordinator, Defence Media Operations (DMO), Maj-Gen. John Enenche, who stated these in a statement yesterday, said… October 16, 2020 In "News"