 Taiwan appealed to people to avoid panic buying of items such as instant noodles and toilet paper as new curbs on gatherings and movement took effect to rein in the spread of COVID-19 during a spike in domestic infections.
Taiwan raised its coronavirus alert level in the capital, Taipei, and the surrounding city, on Saturday, imposing two weeks of restrictions that will shut many venues and limit gatherings, reports Reuters.
While total infections since the pandemic began remain low at 1,475, the recent community transmissions have alarmed a population that had become accustomed to life staying close to normal, with no full lockdowns of the kind seen elsewhere.
In messages late on Saturday, the president, premier and economy ministry took to Facebook to say there was no need to hoard or rush to the shops, after people scrambled to stock up on basic goods, mainly instant noodles and toilet paper.
“After more than a year of preparation, the country’s anti-pandemic materials, civilian goods and raw materials are sufficient, and the stores are also operating as usual to replenish goods,” President Tsai Ing-wen said.
French supermarket chain Carrefour (CARR.PA) said it was limiting purchases of items such as masks and instant noodles in its Taiwan stores, asking people to buy only what they need.
The economy ministry showed pictures of warehouses piled to the ceiling with boxes of instant noodles, saying supplies were “like a mountain” with plenty of toilet paper and canned food to go round as well.
Premier Su Tseng-chang made a similar appeal on his Facebook page. He triggered amusement early last year, during a previous rush for toilet paper, by saying people “only have one butthole” and should calm down.
While not ordering a total lockdown, the government is urging people to stay at home as much as possible.
The health ministry brought out its dog mascot, a shiba inu called Zongchai, to reinforce the message on social media.
“Study Zongchai and stay at home,” it said, showing pictures of the canine lying on the floor resting.  German Chancellor Angela Merkel is seeking agreement on stricter measures against the coronavirus. Merkel is seeking such things as limits on gatherings and restrictions on alcohol sales, as she prepares to meet with the leaders of the country’s 16 states on Tuesday. The talks, which have been a steady fixture… September 29, 2020 In "News" Tesco has said it is introducing limits on some key household essentials, just days after its chief executive appealed for no "unnecessary" panic buying as coronavirus restrictions are tightened. The UK's largest supermarket chain revealed a three items per customer limit on flour, dried pasta, toilet roll, baby wipes… September 25, 2020 In "Business" Serving Overseer of the Citadel Global Community Church (CGCC), Pastor Tunde Bakare, has warned against the reopening of churches as directed by the Lagos State government.   Speaking yesterday during his online sermon, the cleric urged Christians not to let any religious leader or government official lead them like sheep… August 3, 2020 In "News"