Nigeria’s 2020 Tokyo Olympics Games build-up has been given a major boost by Delta State Governor Dr Ifeanyi Okowa who has adopted seven athletes to support their preparations.  This action is another recorded success of the Adopt Initiative championed by the Minister of Youth and Sports Development. Those adopted by the Governor include Favour Ofili ,Blessing Okagbare,Divine Oduduru and Raymond Ekevwo. Others are Itshekiri Usheorise and Ogho Oghene Egwero and lately Ese Brume.  With this adoption, the preparations of these athletes for the Olympics hits a higher gear. Personal expenses like medical, hiring of personal trainer, nutritionist and other related needs will be taken care of.  The Adopt -an-Athlete initiative was created by the Minister of Youth and sports Development Mr. Sunday Dare to have individuals, State Government and Corporate bodies fund the training of  Olympics- bound athletes.  These newly adopted athletes join the league of those that had earlier been adopted by Lagos, Edo and Ogun State Governors. Most of those adopted are already part of Team Nigeria camp in the United States.  The money is to paid directly into the personal account of the adopted athletes after the signing of an MOU between the athlete and the adopter.   After months of inactivity as a result of the impact of Covid-19 pandemic which brought the world postrate on its knees, sporting activities are getting back on track with Minister of Youth and sports Development Sunday Dare taking over the driver's seat for the much postponed National Sports Festival and… March 20, 2021 In "Sports" As preparations for the Tokyo 2020 Olympics intensifies, the Minister of Youth and Sports Development Mr Sunday Dare on Monday visited the athletes who have been training at the Moshood National Stadium Abuja preparatory to their departure for USA on Thursday to participate in relay Qualifiers.   While addressing the… May 4, 2021 In "Sports" Nigeria's preparations for the Tokyo 2020 Olympics Games has been given a major boost by the Edo State Governor, Godwin Obaseki, following his adoption of quarter miler Orukpe Eraiyokan. The Governor made a final financial commitment for the adoption of the UK-based athlete after a meeting with the Minister of… March 23, 2021 In "Sports"