Okey Maduforo, Awka  Shuttle Bus drivers in Awka, the Anambra State capital, Monday embarked on an indefinite strike following the killing of their member by suspected cultists. Commuters in Awka were seen in their numbers waiting for shuttle buses to transport them to their respective destinations for hours while some chose to walk to their offices and shops. According to one of the shuttle bus drivers, their dead member was said to have been talking shots of the suspected cultists at Ifite Awka when they were killing a rival cult member and allegedly posted the picture on social media. He said for about a week the cultists had been trailing him and last Sunday morning at Market Three Ifite Awka they double-crossed his shuttle bus and ordered all the passengers out of the vehicle after which they fired several shot at him at close range killing him on the spot. In reaction to the brazen murder, the Shuttle Bus Association decided not to go to work Monday morning and as at the time of filing this report, the buses had not started operating.  Residents of Awka, Anambra State yesterday woke up to witness the killing of at least three people by suspected rival cult groups.   This was despite the operations of the state Joint Task Force on Security, which in the last one week has been hunting the gunmen who have been… March 29, 2021 In "Metro & Crime" In what looked like a horror film with characters to fit it's screen play, gunmen who disguised as passengers Friday hacked a commercial bus driver to death in a most gruesome manner in Benin, the Edo State capital. The incident occured while residents including Christian faithful were celebrating activities to… January 1, 2021 In "Metro & Crime" Over 24 abducted in two weeks Kidnappers are now on the prowl in Edo State with abduction of victims, especially travellers on a daily basis. In the past two weeks, about 24 people, including high-profile individuals, passengers of an Abuja-bound commercial bus belonging to a popular transporter near Ogbemudia farm… December 4, 2020 In "Metro & Crime"