…urges govs to prioritise citizens’ welfare  As many Nigerians continue to call for unity in the country, Nobel Laureate, Prof. Wole Soyinka, yesterday, took a swipe at the administration of President Muhammadu Buhari, insisting that the current government’s failing ineptitude cannot unite Nigeria furthermore.  Speaking in Abuja, at the book reading and signing of two of his books titled: ‘Trumpism in Academe’ and ‘Chronicles of the Happiest People on Earth’ organised by by Rovenheights Bookstore and Orisun Gallery, the playwright attributed this to the country’s systemic failure, which he said, was worrisome.  Responding to a question by former Governor Rochas Okorocha of Imo State, who asked him if he could write a Nigerian story where the country is united, Soyinka said: “We had a critical moment and we lost that moment.  “The moment when this country could have come together; and the sense of oneness, belonging, that vision of oneness. We lost that moment. There has been more than one moment and we lost the moment. Will another one come?  “I don’t know. Right now, I don’t see it under this government quite frankly. “There is a failure, a systemic failure in present governance and I don’t know who can put it together. These days, I try to go some days without reading the newspapers. It is so depressing.”  Continuing, Soyinka said he personally believed that Nigeria should not break up, but should remain one entity. He also advised Nigerian governors to shun timidity and push for greater autonomy.  He re-echoed the call for restructuring while speaking at the virtual Obafemi Awolowo lecture with the theme, ‘Whither Nigeria?’ on March 6. Challenging the governors to take charge of the welfare of their people, he said if they studied the constitution carefully, just as he had done with his lawyers, they would realise that a lot can be done at this moment.  According to him, the governors have too much centralised mentality embedded in their minds and are afraid to come out of their cocoons.  Nobel Laureate, Prof. Wole Soyinka, on Saturday, urged Nigerians to reject kidnapping of school children in the Northern parts of the country as a way of life, saying any state where child hostage takes place should be shut down in protest against the act.   Soyinka, who was reacting to… February 28, 2021 In "News" …says OBJ's warnings, accurate reading of situation Nobel Laureate and civil rights activist, Prof. Wole Soyinka, yesterday, joined the raging debate on the state of the nation, declaring that Nigeria was not just a failing state, but a crumbling edifice and a contraption teetering on the very edge of total… September 16, 2020 In "News" Wole Soyinka, Nobel laureate, has asked the Federal Government to seek foreign assistance in tackling insecurity in the country. The Nobel laureate said this in a statement he issued on Sunday. Referring to the killing of three students abducted from Greenfield University in Kaduna by gunmen on Friday, Soyinka said youths… April 26, 2021 In "News"