 Villarreal coach Unai Emery praised his “impeccable” players for their dedication after claiming the club’s first major trophy by beating Manchester United in the Europa League final on Wednesday.
The Spanish side won a thrilling penalty shoot-out 11-10, after a 1-1 draw, with goalkeeper Geronimo Rulli scoring his side’s 11th before stepping back in goal to make the decisive save, stopping United counterpart David de Gea’s spot-kick, reports Reuters.
It was a record fourth Europa League triumph for Emery as a manager, after winning the competition three times with Sevilla, but marked Villarreal’s first piece of major silverware.
“In the Europa League we have been absolutely impeccable. Since the very first moment. Some days we were coming at 6am to the stadium to prepare a game for the Sunday. All of this makes the journey (worthwhile),” Emery told a news conference.
“We were talking about enjoying these moments. In the end you are proud to reach the title (decider) but if you don’t win, you are sad. Winning is another step, an important step ahead. We do this profession for these moments. We have been able to give joy to many people.”
Emery joined Villarreal in July 2020, nine months after he was sacked by English side Arsenal following a poor run of results.
The Spaniard knocked his former club out of this season’s competition at the semi-final stage before taking down another Premier League giant in United, but insisted he did not see the achievement as a personal triumph.
“I insist it is not a sports revenge at all. I try to enjoy every moment, winning and losing. I try to create new circumstances, so everywhere I have been, even in England at Arsenal, I have learned a lot, met many people, other cultures and football,” he said.
“At the end of that story was professional frustration, but some other doors opened then. Winning today is a satisfaction, but for my club today, as it was when I was at Sevilla.
“When I was at Arsenal we played a Europa League final and could not win but it is a process, from that game I learned a lot to win this one maybe.”  ...Arsenal out after goalless draw with Villarreal Manchester United reached their first final of the Ole Gunnar Solskjaer era but lost their seven-match unbeaten record in an entertaining Europa League last-four tie with Roma. Edinson Cavani scored both United goals in the second leg of a 13-goal semi-final, reports the… May 7, 2021 In "Sports" • Ajax 1-2 Roma; Dinamo Zagreb 0-1 Villarreal • Ibañez strike puts Roma in control, Moreno seals Villarreal win Ibañez crashed home a spectacular volley two minutes from time to give Roma a 2-1 away win over Ajax in their Europa League quarter-final first leg. A missed penalty and a horror goalkeeping slip cost Ajax dearly as they… April 9, 2021 In "Sports" Manager Ole Gunnar Solskjaer accepts this season has not been a success for Manchester United but believes his squad has the right characters to do better next term. United lost to Villarreal in the Europa League final after David de Gea's spot kick was saved in an epic shootout. The Red… May 27, 2021 In "Sports"